 Living on Mars , Deckard is acting as a consultant to a movie crew filming the story of his Blade Runner days . He finds himself drawn into a mission on behalf of the replicants he was once assigned to kill . Meanwhile , the mystery surrounding the beginnings of the Tyrell Corporation is being dragged out into the light . 
 Beginning several months after the events in Blade Runner , Deckard has retired to an isolated shack outside the city , taking the replicant Rachael with him in a Tyrell transport container , which slows down the replicant aging process . He is approached by a woman who explains she is Sarah Tyrell , niece of Eldon Tyrell , heiress to the entire Tyrell Corporation and the human template templant for the Rachael replicant . She asks Deckard to hunt down the missing sixth replicant . At the same time , the human template for Roy Batty hires Dave Holden , the blade runner attacked by Leon , to help him hunt down the man he believes is the sixth replicant Deckard . Deckard and Holden s investigations lead them to re visit Sebastian , Bryant , and John Isidore from the book Do Androids Dream Of Electric Sheep ? , learning more about the nature of the blade runners and the replicants . When Deckard , Batty , and Holden finally clash , Batty s inhuman fighting prowess leads Holden to believe he has been duped all along and that Batty is the sixth replicant he shoots him . Deckard returns to Sarah with his suspicion there is no sixth replicant . Sarah , speaking via a remote camera , confesses that she created and maintained the rumor herself , to deliberately discredit and eventually destroy the Tyrell Corporation , after her uncle Eldon created Rachael based on her and then abandoned the real Sarah . Sarah brings Rachael back to the Corporation building to meet with Deckard , and he escapes with her . However , Holden recovering from his injuries during the fight later finds the truth Rachael has been killed by Tyrell agents , and the Rachael who escaped with Deckard was actually Sarah . She has completed her revenge by both destroying Tyrell , and taking back Rachael s place . 
 During the time of the Judges when there was a famine , an Israelite family from Bethlehem Elimelech , his wife Naomi , and their sons Mahlon and Chilion emigrate to the nearby country of Moab . Elimelech dies , and the sons marry two Moabite women Mahlon marries Ruth and Chilion marries Orpah . The two sons of Naomi then die themselves . Naomi decides to return to Bethlehem . She tells her daughters in law to return to their own mothers , and remarry . Orpah reluctantly leaves however , Ruth says , Entreat me not to leave you , or to turn back from following you For wherever you go , I will go And wherever you lodge , I will lodge Your people shall be my people , and your God , my God . Where you die , I will die , and there will I be buried . The LORD do so to me , and more also , if anything but death parts you and me . Ruth 1 16 17 NKJV The two women return to Bethlehem . It is the time of the barley harvest , and in order to support her mother in law and herself , Ruth goes to the fields to glean . The field she goes to belongs to a man named Boaz , who is kind to her because he has heard of her loyalty to her mother in law . Ruth tells her mother in law of Boaz s kindness , and she gleans in his field through the remainder of the harvest season . Boaz is a close relative of Naomi s husband s family . He is therefore obliged by the Levirate law to marry Mahlon s widow , Ruth , in order to carry on his family line . Naomi sends Ruth to the threshing floor at night and tells her to uncover the feet of the sleeping Boaz . Ruth does so Boaz awakes and asks , Who are you ? Ruth identifies herself , then asks Boaz to spread his cloak over her . The phrase spread your cloak was a woman s way of asking for marriage Ezekiel 16 8 . For a man to spread his cloak over a woman showed acquisition of that woman . Boaz states he is willing to redeem Ruth via marriage , but informs Ruth that there is another male relative who has the first right of redemption . The next morning , Boaz discusses the issue with the other male relative , Ploni Almoni so and so before the town elders . The other male relative is unwilling to jeopardize the inheritance of his own estate by marrying Ruth , and so relinquishes his right of redemption , thus allowing Boaz to marry Ruth . They transfer the property and redeem it by the nearer kinsman taking off his sandal and handing it over to Boaz . Ruth 4 7 18 Boaz and Ruth get married and have a son named Obed who by Levirate customs is also considered a son or heir to Elimelech , and thus Naomi . In the genealogy which concludes the story , it is pointed out that Obed is the father of Jesse , and thus the grandfather of David . This also places Ruth among David s ancestors . 
 The book of Job tells the story of an extremely righteous man named Job , who is very prosperous and has seven sons and three daughters . Constantly fearing that his sons may have sinned and cursed God in their hearts , he habitually offers burnt offerings as a pardon for their sins . The sons of God and Satan literally the Adversary present themselves to God , and God asks Satan his opinion on Job . Satan answers that Job is pious only because God has put a wall around him and blessed his favourite servant with prosperity , but if God were to stretch out his hand and strike everything that Job had , then he would surely curse God . God gives Satan permission to test Job s righteousness . All Job s possessions are destroyed 500 yoke of oxen and 500 donkeys carried off by Sabeans 7 , 000 sheep burned up by The fire of God which fell from the sky 3 , 000 camels stolen by the Chaldeans and the house of the firstborn destroyed by a mighty wind , killing Job s ten children . Still Job does not curse God , but instead shaves his head , tears his clothes , and says , Naked I came out of my mother s womb , and naked shall I return Lord has given , and Lord has taken away blessed be the name of Lord . As Job endures these calamities without reproaching God , Satan solicits permission to afflict his person as well , and God says , Behold , he is in your hand , but don t touch his life . Satan , therefore , smites him with dreadful boils , and Job , seated in ashes , scrapes his skin with broken pottery . His wife prompts him to curse God , and die , but Job answers , You speak as one of the foolish speaks . Moreover , shall we receive good from God and shall not receive evil ? Three friends of Job , Eliphaz the Temanite , Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite , come to console him . A fourth , Elihu the Buzite Heb Alieua ben Barakal the Buzite , begins talking in Chapter 32 and plays a significant role in the dialogue , but his arrival is not described . The friends spend seven days sitting on the ground with Job , without saying anything to him because they see that he is suffering and in much pain . Job at last breaks his silence and curses the day he was born . God responds saying that there are so many things Job does not know about how this world was formed or how nature works , that Job should consider God as being greater than the thunderstorm and strong enough to pull in the leviathan with a fish hook . God then rebukes the three friends and says , I am angry with you . . . you have not spoken of me what is right . The story ends with Job restored to health , with a new family and twice as much livestock . 
 The plot centers on a conflict between Jonah and God . God calls Jonah to proclaim judgment to Nineveh , but Jonah resists and attempts to flee . He goes to Joppa and boards a ship bound for Tarshish . God calls up a great storm at sea , and the ship s crew cast Jonah overboard in an attempt to appease God . A great sea creature sent by God , swallows Jonah . For three days and three nights Jonah languishes inside the fish s belly . He says a prayer in which he repents for his disobedience and thanks God for His mercy . God speaks to the fish , which vomits out Jonah safely on dry land . After his rescue , Jonah obeys the call to prophesy against Nineveh , and they repent and God forgives them . Jonah is furious , however , and angrily tells God that this is the reason he tried to flee from Him , as he knew Him to be a just and merciful God . He then beseeches God to kill him , a request which is denied when God causes a tree to grow over him , giving him shade . Initially grateful , Jonah s anger returns the next day , when God sends a worm to eat the plant , withering it , and he tells God that it would be better if he were dead . God then points out Thou hast had pity on the gourd , for the which thou hast not laboured , neither madest it grow which came up in a night , and perished in a night . And should not I spare Nineveh , that great city , wherein are more than sixscore thousand persons that cannot discern between their right hand and their left hand and also much cattle ? Ironically , the relentless God demonstrated in the first chapter becomes the merciful God in the last two chapters see 3 10 . In a parallel turnabout , Jonah becomes one of the most effective of all prophets , turning the entire population of Nineveh about 120 , 000 people to God . 
 Haggai s message is filled with an urgency for the people to proceed with the rebuilding of the second Jerusalem temple . Haggai attributes a recent drought to the peoples refusal to rebuild the temple , which he sees as key to Jerusalem s glory . The book ends with the prediction of the downfall of kingdoms , with one Zerubbabel , governor of Judah , as the Lord s chosen leader . The language here is not as finely wrought as in some other books of the minor prophets , yet the intent seems straightforward . 
 The story is told through the eyes of narrator James Ballard , named after the author himself , but it centers on the sinister figure of Dr . Robert Vaughan , a former TV scientist , turned nightmare angel of the expressways . Ballard meets Vaughan after being involved in a car accident himself near London Airport . Gathering around Vaughan is a group of alienated people , all of them former crash victims , who follow him in his pursuit to re enact the crashes of celebrities , and experience what the narrator calls a new sexuality , born from a perverse technology . Vaughan s ultimate fantasy is to die in a head on collision with movie star Elizabeth Taylor . 
 The following literary outline of Deuteronomy is from John Van Seters it can be contrasted with Alexander Rofé s covenantal analysis in his Deuteronomy Issues and Interpretation . Chapters 1 4 The journey through the wilderness from Horeb Sinai to Kadesh and then to Moab is recalled . Chapters 4 11 After a second introduction at 4 44 49 the events at Mount Horeb Mt . Sinai are recalled , with the giving of the Ten Commandments . Heads of families are urged to instruct those under their care in the law , warnings are made against serving gods other than Yahweh , the land promised to Israel is praised , and the people are urged to obedience . Chapters 12 26 , the Deuteronomic code Laws governing Israel s worship chapters 12 16a , the appointment and regulation of community and religious leaders 16b 18 , social regulation 19 25 , and confession of identity and loyalty 26 . Chapters 27 28 Blessings and curses for those who keep and break the law . Chapters 29 30 Concluding discourse on the covenant in the land of Moab , including all the laws in the Deuteronomic code chapters 12 26 after those given at Horeb Israel is again exhorted to obedience . Chapters 31 34 Joshua is installed as Moses successor , Moses delivers the law to the Levites priests , and ascends Mount Nebo Pisgah , where he dies and is buried by God . The narrative of these events is interrupted by two poems , the Song of Moses and the Blessing of Moses . The final verses , Deuteronomy 34 10 12 , never again did there arise in Israel a prophet like Moses , state authoritatively that the Deuteronomistic view of theology , with its insistence on the worship of Yahweh as the sole God of Israel , was the only permissible religion , sealed by the greatest of prophets . 
 Death of a Hero is the story of a young English artist named George Winterbourne who enlists in the army at the outbreak of World War I . The book is narrated by an unnamed first person narrator who claims to have known and served with the main character . It is divided into three parts . The first part details George s family history . His father , a middle class man from England s countryside , marries a poor woman who falsely believes she is marrying into a monied family . After George s birth , his mother takes a series of lovers . George is brought up to be a proper and patriotic member of English society . He is encouraged to follow in his father s insurance business , but fails to do so . After a falling out with his parents , he moves to London to pursue art and live a socialite lifestyle . The second section of the book deals with George s London life . He ingrains himself in socialite society and engages a number of trendy philosophies . After he and his lover , Elizabeth , have a pregnancy scare , they decide to marry . Although they do not have a child , the marriage stands . They decide to leave their marriage open . George takes Elizabeth s close friend as a lover , however , and their marriage begins to fall apart . Just as the situation is becoming particularly heated , England declares war on Germany . George decides to enlist . George trains for the army and is sent to France . No particular location in France is mentioned . The town behind the front where George spends much of his time is referred to as M . He fights on the front for some time . When he returns home , he finds that he has been so affected by the war that he cannot relate to his friends , including his wife and lover . The casualty rate among officers is particularly high at the front . When a number of officers in George s unit are killed , he is promoted . Upon spending time with the other officers , he finds them to be cynical and utilitarian . He loses faith in the war quickly . The story ends with George standing up during a machine gun barrage . He is killed . At the end of the book there is a poem written from the point of view of a veteran comparing World War I to the Trojan War . 
 Farmer Giles Ægidius Ahenobarbus Julius Agricola de Hammo , Giles Bronze beard Julius Farmer of Ham is not a hero . He is fat and red bearded and enjoys a slow , comfortable life . But a rather deaf and short sighted giant blunders on to his land , and Giles manages to ward him away with a blunderbuss shot in his general direction . The people of the village cheer Farmer Giles has become a hero . His reputation spreads across the kingdom , and he is rewarded by the King with a sword named Caudimordax Tailbiter which turns out to be a powerful weapon against dragons . The giant , on returning home , relates to his friends that there are no more knights in the Middle Kingdom , just stinging flies actually the scrap metal shot from the blunderbuss and this entices a dragon , Chrysophylax Dives , to investigate the area . The terrified neighbours all expect the accidental hero Farmer Giles to deal with him . The story parodies the great dragon slaying traditions . The knights sent by the King to pursue the dragon are useless fops , more intent on precedence and etiquette than on the huge dragon footprints littering the landscape . The only part of a dragon they know is the annual celebratory dragon tail cake . Giles by contrast clearly recognizes the danger , and resents being sent along to face it . But hapless farmers can be forced to become heroes , and Giles shrewdly makes the best of the situation . 
 Harriet Vane returns reluctantly to Oxford to attend the Gaudy dinner . Expecting hostility because of her notoriety , she is surprised to be welcomed warmly by the dons , and rediscovers her old love of the academic life . Some time later the Warden of Shrewsbury writes to ask for help . There has been an outbreak of anonymous letters , vandalism and threats , apparently from someone within the college , and a scandal is feared . Harriet , herself a victim of poison pen letters ever since her trial , reluctantly agrees to help , and spends much of the next few months resident at the college , ostensibly to do research on Sheridan Le Fanu and assist a don with her book . As she wrestles with the case , trying to narrow down the list of suspects and avert a major scandal , Harriet is forced to examine her ambivalent feelings about love and marriage , along with her attraction to academia as an intellectual and emotional refuge . Her personal dilemma becomes entangled with darkly hinted suspicions and prejudices raised by the crimes at the college , which appear to have been committed by a sexually frustrated female don . Harriet is forced to re examine her relationship with Wimsey in the light of what she has discovered about herself . Wimsey eventually arrives in Oxford to help her , and she gains a new perspective on him from those who know him , including his nephew , a current undergraduate at the university . The attacks build to a crisis , and the college community of students , dons and servants is almost torn apart by suspicion and fear . There is an attempt to drive a vulnerable student to suicide , and a physical assault on Harriet that almost kills her . The perpetrator is finally unmasked by Wimsey as one of the college servants , revealed to be the widow of a disgraced academic at a northern university . Her husband s academic fraud had been exposed by one of his fellow dons there , destroying his career and driving him to suicide . The don has since moved to Shrewsbury College , and the campaign has been the widow s revenge against intellectual women who move outside their proper domestic sphere . At the end of the book , Harriet Vane finally accepts Wimsey s proposal of marriage . Their marriage and honeymoon interrupted by another murder mystery are depicted in Busman s Honeymoon . 
 The Gylfaginning tells the story of Gylfi , a king of the land that men now call Sweden , who after being tricked by one of the goddesses of the Æsir , wonders if all Æsir use magic and tricks for their will to be done . This is why he journeys to Asgard , but on the way he is tricked by the gods and arrives in some other place , where he finds a great palace . Inside the palace he encounters a man who asks Gylfi s name and so king Gylfi introduces himself as Gangleri . Gangleri then is taken to the king of the palace and comes upon three men High , Just As High , and Third . Gangleri is then challenged to show his wisdom by asking questions , as is the custom in many Norse sagas . Each question made to High , Just As High , and Third is about an aspect of the Norse mythology or its gods , and also about the creation and destruction of the world Ragnarök . In the end all the palace and its people just vanish and Gylfi is left standing on empty ground . It is then implied that as Gylfi returns to his nation , he retells the tales he was told . It can be argued that Snorri used this narrative device as a means of being able to safely document a vanishing and largely oral tradition within a Christian context . 
 Joe Bonham , a young soldier serving in World War I , awakens in a hospital bed after being caught in the blast of an exploding artillery shell . He gradually realizes that he has lost his arms , legs , and all of his face including his eyes , ears , teeth , and tongue , but that his mind functions perfectly , leaving him a prisoner in his own body . Joe attempts suicide by suffocation , but finds that he had been given a tracheotomy which he can neither remove nor control . At first Joe wishes to die , but later decides that he desires to be placed in a glass box and toured around the country in order to show others the true horrors of war . After he successfully communicates with his doctors by banging his head on his pillow in Morse code , however , he realizes that neither desire will be granted it is implied that he will live the rest of his natural life in his condition . As Joe drifts between reality and fantasy , he remembers his old life with his family and girlfriend , and reflects upon the myths and realities of war . He also forms a bond , of sorts , with a young nurse who senses his plight . 
 Icehenge is part mystery , part psychological drama , and is set in three distinct time periods . The story shifts from a failed Martian political revolution of 2248 , to an expedition to explore a mysterious monument on the north pole of Pluto three centuries later , and ultimately to a space station orbiting Saturn , home to a reclusive and wealthy woman who may hold the key to solving a mystery spanning centuries . 
 In this story , an artist , named Niggle , lives in a society that does not much value art . Working only to please himself , he paints a canvas of a great Tree with a forest in the distance . He invests each and every leaf of his tree with obsessive attention to detail , making every leaf uniquely beautiful . Niggle ends up discarding all his other artworks , or tacks them onto the main canvas , which becomes a single vast embodiment of his vision . However , there are many mundane chores and duties that prevent Niggle from giving his work the attention it deserves , so it remains incomplete and is not fully realized . At the back of his head , Niggle knows that he has a great trip looming , and he must pack and prepare his bags . Also , Niggle s next door neighbour , a gardener named Parish , is the sort of neighbour who always drops by whining about the help he needs with this and that . Moreover , Parish is lame and has a sick wife , and honestly needs help Niggle , having a good heart , takes time out to help . And Niggle has other pressing work duties that require his attention . Then Niggle himself catches a chill doing errands for Parish in the rain . Eventually , Niggle is forced to take his trip , and cannot get out of it . He has not prepared , and as a result ends up in a kind of institution , in which he must perform menial labour each day . In time he is paroled from the institution , and he is sent to a place for a little gentle treatment . But he discovers that the new country he is sent to is in fact the country of the Tree and Forest of his great painting , now long abandoned and all but destroyed except for the one perfect leaf of the title which is placed in the local museum in the home to which he cannot return but the Tree here and now in this place is the true realization of his vision , not the flawed and incomplete form of his painting . Niggle is reunited with his old neighbour , Parish , who now proves his worth as a gardener , and together they make the Tree and Forest even more beautiful . Finally , Niggle journeys farther and deeper into the Forest , and beyond into the great mountains that he only faintly glimpsed in his painting . Long after both Niggle and Parish have taken their journeys , the lovely field that they built together becomes a place for many travelers to visit before their final voyage into the Mountains , and it earns the name Niggle s Parish . 
 The plot of the novel has two distinct movements the events at Microsoft and in Redmond , Washington , and the movement to Silicon Valley and the Oop ! project . The novel begins in Redmond as the characters are working on different projects at Microsoft s main campus . Life at the campus feels like a feudalistic society , with Bill Gates as the lord , and the employees the serfs . The majority of the main characters Daniel the narrator , Susan , Todd , Bug , Michael , and Abe are living together in a geek house , and their lives are dedicated to their projects and the company . Daniel s foundations are shaken when his father , a longtime employee of IBM , is laid off . The lifespan of a Microsoft coder weighs heavily on Daniel s mind . The second movement of the novel begins when the characters are offered jobs in Silicon Valley working on a project for Michael , who has by then left Redmond . All of the housemates some immediately , some after thought decide to move to the Valley . The characters lives change drastically once they leave the limited sphere of the Microsoft campus and enter the world of One Point Oh . They begin to work on a project called Oop ! a reference to object oriented programming . Oop ! is a Lego like design program , allowing dynamic creation of many objects , bearing a resemblance to 2009 s Minecraft . Coupland appears on the rear cover of the novel s hardcover versions photographed in Denmark s Legoland Billund , holding a Lego 747 . One of the undercurrents of the plot is Daniel and his family s relationship to Jed , Daniel s younger brother who died in a boating accident while they were children . 
 The action takes place in two periods the Second World War and the late 1990s , during the Internet boom . In 1942 , Lawrence Pritchard Waterhouse , a young U . S . Navy code breaker and mathematical genius , is assigned to the newly formed joint British and American Detachment 2702 . This ultra secret unit s role is to hide the fact that Allied Intelligence has cracked the German Enigma code . The detachment stages events , often behind enemy lines , that provide alternative explanations for the Allied intelligence successes . Marine sergeant Bobby Shaftoe , a veteran of China and Guadalcanal , serves in unit 2702 , carrying out Waterhouse s plans . At the same time , Japanese soldiers including mining engineer Goto Dengo , an old friend of Shaftoe s , are assigned to build a mysterious bunker in the mountains in the Philippines as part of what turns out to be a literal suicide mission . Circa 1997 , Randy Waterhouse Lawrence s grandson joins his old Dungeons and Dragons companion Avi Halaby in a new startup , providing Pinoy grams to migrant Filipinos via new fiber optic cables . The aptly named Epiphyte Corporation uses this income stream to fund the creation of a data haven in the nearby fictional Sultanate of Kinakuta . Vietnam veteran Doug Shaftoe and his daughter Amy do the undersea surveying for the cables and engineering work on the haven is overseen by Goto Furudenendu , heir apparent to Goto Engineering . Complications arise as figures from the past reappear seeking gold or revenge . 
 The protagonist is Bob Arctor , member of a household of drug users , who is also living a parallel life as Agent Fred , an undercover police agent assigned to spy on Arctor s household . Arctor Fred shields his true identity from those in the drug subculture , and from the police themselves . The requirement that narcotics agents remain anonymous , to avoid collusion and other forms of corruption , becomes a critical plot point late in the book . While supposedly only posing as a drug user , Arctor becomes addicted to Substance D also referred to as Slow Death , Death , or D , a powerful psychoactive drug . An ongoing conflict is Arctor s love for Donna , a drug dealer through whom he intends to identify high level dealers of Substance D . Arctor s persistent use of the drug causes the two hemispheres of his brain to function independently , or compete . Through a series of drug and psychological tests , Arctor s superiors at work discover that his addiction has made him incapable of performing his job as a narcotics agent . Donna takes Arctor to New Path , a rehabilitation clinic , just as Arctor begins to experience the symptoms of Substance D withdrawal . It is revealed that Donna has been a narcotics agent all along , working as part of a police operation to infiltrate New Path and determine its funding source . Without his knowledge , Arctor has been selected to penetrate the secretive organization . As part of the rehab program , Arctor is renamed Bruce and forced to participate in cruel group dynamic games intended to break the will of the patients . The story ends with Bruce working at a New Path farming commune , where he is suffering from a serious neurocognitive deficit after withdrawing from Substance D . Although considered by his handlers to be nothing more than a walking shell of a man , Bruce manages to spot rows of blue flowers growing hidden among rows of corn , and realizes the blue flowers are Mors ontologica , the source of Substance D . The book ends with Bruce hiding a flower in his shoe to give to his friends undercover police agents posing as recovering addicts at the Los Angeles New Path facility on Thanksgiving . 
 In this alternate history the corrupt US President Ferris F . Fremont FFF for 666 , F being the 6th letter in the alphabet , see Number of the Beast becomes Chief Executive in the late Nineteen Sixties following Lyndon Johnson s administration . The character is best described as an amalgam of Joseph McCarthy and Richard Nixon , who abrogates civil liberties and human rights through positing a conspiracy theory centered around a presumably fictitious subversive organization known as Aramchek . In addition to this , he is associated with a right wing populist movement called Friends of the American People FAPers . Ironically enough , the President s paranoia and opportunism lead to the establishment of a real resistance movement that is organized through narrow beam radio transmissions from a mysterious alien near Earth satellite , by a superintelligent , extraterrestrial , but less than omnipotent being or network named VALIS . As with its successor , VALIS , this novel is autobiographical . Dick himself is a major character , though fictitious protagonist Nicholas Brady serves as a vehicle for Dick s alleged gnostic theophany on February 11 , 1974 . In addition , Sadassa Silvia is a character who claims that Ferris Fremont is actually a communist covert agent recruited by Sadassa s mother when Fremont was still a teenager . As with VALIS , Radio Free Albemuth deals with author Philip Dick s highly personal style of Christianity or Gnosticism . It further examines the moral and ethical repercussions of informing on trusting friends for the authorities . Also prominent is Dick s dislike of the Republican Party , satirizing Nixon s America as a Stalinist or neo fascist police state . Fremont eventually captures and imprisons Dick and Brady after the latter attempts to produce and distribute a record that contains subliminal messages of revolt against the current dictatorship . Brady and Silvia are executed , and Dick narrates the concluding passage about his life in a concentration camp , where his supposedly latest work is actually penned by a ghost writer and regime approved hack . Suddenly , however , he hears music blaring from a transistor radio which contains the same subliminal message . He and his friends , it turns out , were just a decoy set up by VALIS to detour the government from stopping a much more popular A List band from releasing a similar record with a better established recording company . As Dick realizes this and hears youngsters repeating the lyrics he realizes that salvation may lie within the hearts and minds of the next generation . 
 Shade s poem digressively describes many aspects of his life . Canto 1 includes his early encounters with death and glimpses of what he takes to be the supernatural . Canto 2 is about his family and the apparent suicide of his daughter , Hazel Shade . Canto 3 focuses on Shade s search for knowledge about an afterlife , culminating in a faint hope in higher powers playing a game of worlds as indicated by apparent coincidences . Canto 4 offers details on Shade s daily life and creative process , as well as thoughts on his poetry , which he finds to be a means of somehow understanding the universe . In Kinbote s editorial contributions he tells three stories intermixed with each other . One is his own story , notably including what he thinks of as his friendship with Shade . After Shade was murdered , Kinbote acquired the manuscript , including some variants , and has taken it upon himself to oversee the poem s publication , telling readers that it lacks only line 1000 . Kinbote s second story deals with King Charles II , The Beloved , the deposed king of Zembla . King Charles escaped imprisonment by Soviet backed revolutionaries , making use of a secret passage and brave adherents in disguise . Kinbote repeatedly claims that he inspired Shade to write the poem by recounting King Charles s escape to him and that possible allusions to the king , and to Zembla , appear in Shade s poem , especially in rejected drafts . However , no explicit reference to King Charles is to be found in the poem . Kinbote s third story is that of Gradus , an assassin dispatched by the new rulers of Zembla to kill the exiled King Charles . Gradus makes his way from Zembla through Europe and America to New Wye , suffering comic mishaps . In the last note , to the missing line 1000 , Kinbote narrates how Gradus killed Shade by mistake . The reader soon realizes that Kinbote is King Charles , living incognito or , though Kinbote builds an elaborate picture of Zembla complete with samples of a constructed language , that he is insane and that his identification with King Charles is a delusion , as perhaps all of Zembla is . Nabokov said in an interview that Kinbote committed suicide after finishing the book . The critic Michael Wood has stated , This is authorial trespassing , and we don t have to pay attention to it , but Brian Boyd has argued that internal evidence points to Kinbote s suicide . One of Kinbote s annotations to Shade s poem corresponding to line 493 addresses the subject of suicide at some length . 
 The story is episodic . First we learn of Stuart s birth to a family in New York City and how the family adapts , socially and structurally , to having such a small son . He has an adventure in which he gets caught in a window blind while exercising , and Snowbell , the family cat , places Stuart s hat and cane outside a mouse hole , panicking the family . He is accidentally released by his brother George . Then two chapters describe Stuart s participation in a boat race in Central Park . A bird named Margalo is adopted by the Little family , and Stuart protects her from their malevolent cat . The bird repays his kindness by saving Stuart when he is trapped in a garbage can and shipped out for disposal at sea . Margalo flees when she is warned that one of Snowbell s friends intends to eat her , and Stuart strikes out to find her and bring her home . A friendly dentist , who is also the owner of the boat Stuart had raced in Central Park , gives him use of a gasoline powered model car , and Stuart departs to see the country . He works for a while as a substitute teacher and comes to the town of Ames Crossing , where he meets a girl named Harriet Ames who is no taller than he is . They go on one date , and then Stuart leaves town . As the book ends , he has not yet found Margalo , but feels confident he will do so . 
 As a teenager , Mort had a personality and temperament that made him rather unsuited to the family farming business . Mort s father , named Lezek , felt that Mort thought too much , which prevented him from achieving anything practical . Thus , Lezek took him to a local hiring fair , hoping that Mort would land an apprenticeship with some tradesman not only would this provide a job for his son , but it would also make his son s propensity towards thinking someone else s problem . At the job fair , Mort at first has no luck attracting the interest of an employer . Then , just before the stroke of midnight , a man concealed in a black cloak arrives on a white horse . He says he is looking for a young man to assist him in his work and selects Mort for the job . The man turns out to be Death , and Mort is given an apprenticeship in ushering souls into the next world though his father thinks he s been apprenticed to an undertaker . When it is a princess time to die according to a preconceived reality , Mort , instead of ushering her soul , saves her from death , dramatically altering a part of the Discworld s reality . However , the princess , for whom Mort has a developing infatuation , does not have long to live , and he must try to save her , once again , from a seemingly unstoppable death . Both the princess and Mort end up consulting the local wizard , Igneous Cutwell , for various methods of assistance with the crisis . As Mort begins to do most of Death s Duty , he loses some of his former character traits , and essentially starts to become more like Death himself . Death , in turn , yearns to relish what being human is truly like and travels to Ankh Morpork to indulge in new experiences and attempt to feel real human emotion . Conclusively , Mort must duel Death for Mort s freedom . Though Death wins the duel , he spares Mort s life and sends him back to the Disc . The princess is saved from a second death when the alternate reality Mort created is reduced to a pearl like state . This pearl is given to Mort for safe keeping . At the end of the novel , Mort marries Ysabell , Death s adopted daughter . 
 Gandalf tricks Bilbo into hosting a party for Thorin and his band of dwarves , who sing of reclaiming the Lonely Mountain and its vast treasure from the dragon Smaug . When the music ends , Gandalf unveils a map showing a secret door into the Mountain and proposes that the dumbfounded Bilbo serve as the expedition s burglar . The dwarves ridicule the idea , but Bilbo , indignant , joins despite himself . The group travel into the wild , where Gandalf saves the company from trolls and leads them to Rivendell , where Elrond reveals more secrets from the map . Passing over the Misty Mountains , they are caught by goblins and driven deep underground . Although Gandalf rescues them , Bilbo gets separated from the others as they flee the goblins . Lost in the goblin tunnels , he stumbles across a mysterious ring and then encounters Gollum , who engages him in a game of riddles . As a reward for solving all riddles Gollum will show him the path out of the tunnels , but if Bilbo fails , his life will be forfeit . With the help of the ring , which confers invisibility , Bilbo escapes and rejoins the dwarves , improving his reputation with them . The goblins and Wargs give chase but the company are saved by eagles before resting in the house of Beorn . The company enters the black forest of Mirkwood without Gandalf . In Mirkwood , Bilbo first saves the dwarves from giant spiders and then from the dungeons of the Wood elves . Nearing the Lonely Mountain , the travellers are welcomed by the human inhabitants of Lake town , who hope the dwarves will fulfil prophecies of Smaug s demise . The expedition travels to the Lonely Mountain and finds the secret door Bilbo scouts the dragon s lair , stealing a great cup and learning of a weakness in Smaug s armour . The enraged dragon , deducing that Lake town has aided the intruder , sets out to destroy the town . A noble thrush who overheard Bilbo s report of Smaug s vulnerability reports it to Bard , who slays the dragon . When the dwarves take possession of the mountain , Bilbo finds the Arkenstone , an heirloom of Thorin s dynasty , and steals it . The Wood elves and Lake men besiege the mountain and request compensation for their aid , reparations for Lake town s destruction , and settlement of old claims on the treasure . Thorin refuses and , having summoned his kin from the mountains of the North , reinforces his position . Bilbo tries to ransom the Arkenstone to head off a war , but Thorin is intransigent . He banishes Bilbo , and battle seems inevitable . Gandalf reappears to warn all of an approaching army of goblins and Wargs . The dwarves , men , and elves band together , but only with the timely arrival of the eagles and Beorn do they win the climactic Battle of Five Armies . Thorin is fatally wounded and reconciles with Bilbo before he dies . Bilbo accepts only a small portion of his share of the treasure , having no want or need for more , but still returns home a very wealthy hobbit . 
 In The Screwtape Letters , C . S . Lewis provides a series of lessons in the importance of taking a deliberate role in living out Christian faith by portraying a typical human life , with all its temptations and failings , as seen from devils viewpoints . Screwtape holds an administrative post in the bureaucracy Lowerarchy of Hell , and acts as a mentor to Wormwood , the inexperienced tempter . In the body of the thirty one letters which make up the book , Screwtape gives Wormwood detailed advice on various methods of undermining faith and promoting sin in the Patient , interspersed with observations on human nature and Christian doctrine . Wormwood and Screwtape live in a peculiarly morally reversed world , where individual benefit and greed are seen as the greatest good , and neither demon is capable of comprehending God s love for man or acknowledging true human virtue when he sees it . Versions of the letters were originally published weekly in the Anglican periodical The Guardian between May and November 1941 , and the standard edition contains an introduction explaining how the author chose to write his story . Lewis wrote the sequel Screwtape Proposes a Toast in 1959 , a critique of certain trends in public education state schooling . An omnibus edition with a new preface by Lewis was published by Bles in 1961 and MacMillan in 1962 . The Screwtape Letters is one of Lewis most popular works , although he claimed that it was not fun to write , and resolved never to write another Letter . Both The Screwtape Letters and Screwtape Proposes a Toast have been released on both audio cassette and CD , with narration by John Cleese and Joss Ackland . A dramatized audio version by Focus on the Family was a 2010 Audie Award finalist . 
 The story takes place during the Spanish Inquisition . At the beginning of the story an unnamed narrator is brought to trial before various sinister judges . Poe provides no explanation of why he is there or for what he has been arrested . Before him are seven tall white candles on a table , and , as they melt , his hopes of survival also diminish . He is condemned to death and finds himself in a pitch black compartment . At first the prisoner thinks that he is locked in a tomb , but he discovers that he is in a cell . He decides to explore the cell by placing a hem from his robe against a wall so he can count the paces around the room however , he faints before being able to measure the whole perimeter . When the prisoner awakens he discovers food and water nearby . He gets back up and tries to measure the prison again , finding that the perimeter measures one hundred steps . While crossing the room he slips on the hem of his robe . He discovers that if he had not tripped he would have walked into a deep pit with water at the bottom in the center of the cell . After losing consciousness again the narrator discovers that the prison is slightly illuminated and that he is bound to a wooden board by ropes . He looks up in horror to see a painted picture of Father Time on the ceiling hanging from the figure is a gigantic scythe like pendulum swinging slowly back and forth . The pendulum is inexorably sliding downwards and will eventually kill him . However the condemned man is able to attract rats to his bonds with meat left for him to eat and they start chewing through the ropes . As the pendulum reaches a point inches above his heart , the prisoner breaks free of the ropes and watches as the pendulum is drawn back to the ceiling . He then sees that the walls have become red hot and begun moving inwards , driving him into the center of the room and towards the brink of the pit . As he gazes into the pit , he decides that no fate could be worse than falling into it . It is implied by the text that the narrator fears what he sees at the bottom of the pit , or perhaps is frightened by its depth . The exact cause of his fear is not clearly stated . However , as the narrator moves back from the pit , he sees that the red hot walls are leaving him with no foothold . As the prisoner begins to fall into the pit , he hears human voices . The walls rush back and an arm catches him . The French Army has taken Toledo and the Inquisition is in the hands of its enemies . 
 The story deals with the discovery of an artifact on Earth s Moon left behind eons ago by ancient aliens . The object is made of a polished mineral and tetrahedral in shape , and is surrounded by a spherical forcefield . The narrator speculates at one point that the mysterious aliens who left this structure on the Moon may have used mechanisms belonging to a technology that lies beyond our horizons , perhaps to the technology of para physical forces . The narrator speculates that for millions of years evidenced by dust buildup around its forcefield the artifact has been transmitting signals into deep space , but it ceases to transmit when , some time later , it is destroyed with the savage might of atomic power . The narrator hypothesises that this sentinel was left on the moon as a warning beacon for possible intelligent and spacefaring species that might develop on Earth . In 2001 A Space Odyssey , the operation of the sentinel is reversed . It is the energy of the sun , falling for the first time on the uncovered artifact , that triggers the signal that creatures from the Earth had taken the first step into space . 
 In the 22nd century , Dr Vannevar Morgan is a famous structural engineer who hopes to develop the space elevator from a theoretical concept to reality and enlists the resources of his employers to carry out experiments . But the only suitable starting point Earth station for the elevator lies at the summit of a mountain in Taprobane occupied by an ancient order of Buddhist monks , who implacably oppose the plan . Morgan is approached by a Mars based consortium to develop the elevator on Mars as part of a massive terraforming project . To demonstrate the viability of the technology , Morgan tries to run a thin cable of hyperfilament from an orbital factory down to ground level at Taprobane . A monk at the monastery , a former astrophysicist who is a mathematical genius , tries to sabotage the attempt by creating an artificial hurricane using a hijacked weather control satellite . His attempt is in fact successful , but in an ironic twist , the hurricane blows butterflies to the peak of the mountain . This fulfills an ancient prophecy that causes the monks to leave the mountain . The tower can be built on Earth after all . Forced to resign his position for acting beyond his authority , Morgan joins the Martian consortium named Astroengineering and construction of the Tower commences . Several years later , the Earth based tower is well under construction and travel up and down mdash both for tourists and for transfer to rocket ships mdash is being trialled . An astrophysicist and a group of his students and tower staff are stranded in an emergency chamber six hundred kilometres up after an accident with their transport capsule . They have limited food and air supplies . Whilst a laser on a weather control satellite is able to supply heat , it is imperative to provide them with filter masks against the increasing carbon dioxide and also with food , air , and medical supplies a theme earlier explored in Clarke s novel The Sands of Mars . Despite his rapidly failing health , Morgan asserts his right to travel up the tower in a one man spider to rescue them . He nearly fails , with limited battery power , but ultimately succeeds in reaching the chamber . As Morgan surveys the progress of his brainchild , his heart disease claims his life . A short epilogue envisages Earth many centuries later , after the sun has cooled and Earth has been depopulated , with humans now living on the terraformed inner planets . Several space elevators lead to a giant circumterran space station that encircles Earth at geostationary altitude . The analogy with a wheel is evident the space station itself is the wheel rim , Earth is the axle , and the six equidistant space elevators the spokes . 
 Set in France and Louisiana in the early 18th century , the story follows the hero , the Chevalier des Grieux , and his lover , Manon Lescaut . Des Grieux comes from a noble and landed family , but forfeits his hereditary wealth and incurs the disappointment of his father by running away with Manon . In Paris , the young lovers enjoy a blissful cohabitation , while Des Grieux struggles to satisfy Manon s taste for luxury . He scrounges together money by borrowing from his unwaveringly loyal friend Tiberge and from cheating gamblers . On several occasions , Des Grieux s wealth evaporates by theft , in a house fire , etc . , prompting Manon to leave him for a richer man because she cannot stand the thought of living in penury . The two lovers finally settle down in New Orleans , where the virtual absence of class differences allows them for a while to live in idyllic peace . But when Des Grieux reveals their unmarried state to the Governor and asks to be wed with Manon , the Governor s nephew sets his sights on winning Manon s hand . In despair , Des Grieux challenges the Governor s nephew to a duel and knocks him unconscious . Thinking he had killed the man and fearing retribution , the couple flee New Orleans and venture into the wilderness of Louisiana , hoping to reach a neighbouring English settlement . Manon dies of exposure and exhaustion the following morning after burying her , Des Grieux returns to France to become a cleric . 
 Unix Operating System Source Code Level Six is the kernel source code , lightly edited by Lions to better separate the functionality mdash system initialization and process management , interrupts and system calls , basic I O , file systems and pipes and character devices . All procedures and symbols are listed alphabetically with a cross reference . The code as presented will run on a PDP 11 40 with RK 05 disk drive , LP 11 line printer interface , PCL 11 paper tape writer and KL 11 terminal interface , or a suitable PDP 11 emulator , such as SIMH . A Commentary on the Unix Operating System starts with notes on Unix and other useful documentation the Unix manual pages , DEC hardware manuals and so on , a section on the architecture of the PDP 11 and a chapter on how to read C programs . The source commentary follows , divided into the same sections as the code . The book ends with suggested exercises for the student . As Lions explains , this commentary supplements the comments in the source . It is possible to understand the code without the extra commentary , and the reader is advised to do so and only read the notes as needed . The commentary also remarks on how the code might be improved . 
 Since the original run , Shaffer has extensively revised his play , including changes to plot details the following is common to all revisions . At the opening of the tale , Salieri is an old man , having long outlived his fame , and is convinced he used poison to assassinate Mozart . Speaking directly to the audience , he promises to explain himself . The action then flashes back to the eighteenth century , at a time when Salieri has not met Mozart in person , but has heard of him and his music . He adores Mozart s compositions , and is thrilled at the chance to meet Mozart in person , during a salon at which some of Mozart s compositions will be played . When he finally does catch sight of Mozart , however , he is deeply disappointed to find that Mozart s personality does not match the grace or charm of his compositions . When Salieri first meets him , Mozart is crawling around on his hands and knees , engaging in profane talk with his future bride Constanze Weber . Salieri cannot reconcile Mozart s boorish behaviour with the genius that God has inexplicably bestowed upon him . Indeed , Salieri , who has been a devout Catholic all his life , cannot believe that God would choose Mozart over him for such a gift . Salieri renounces God and vows to do everything in his power to destroy Mozart as a way of getting back at his Creator . Throughout much of the rest of the play , Salieri masquerades as Mozart s ally to his face while doing his utmost to destroy his reputation and any success his compositions may have . On more than one occasion it is only the direct intervention of the Emperor himself that allows Mozart to continue interventions which Salieri opposes , and then is all too happy to take credit for when Mozart assumes it was he who intervened . Salieri also humiliates Mozart s wife when she comes to Salieri for aid , and smears Mozart s character with the Emperor and the court . A major theme in Amadeus is Mozart s repeated attempts to win over the aristocratic public with increasingly brilliant compositions , which are always frustrated either by Salieri or by the aristocracy s own inability to appreciate Mozart s genius . The play ends with Salieri attempting suicide in a last attempt to be remembered , leaving a false confession of having murdered Mozart with arsenic . He survives , however , and his confession is disbelieved by all , leaving him to wallow once again in mediocrity . 
 A Crown of Swords has three primary plotlines Rand al Thor , the Dragon Reborn , prepares to attack the Forsaken Sammael in Illian while enjoying life with his friend , Min Farshaw , and attempting to quell the rebellion by nobles in Cairhien , during which Padan Fain severely injures him with the Shadar Logoth dagger . After recovering , Rand , accompanied by Asha man , attacks Illian and defeats Sammael in a duel of the One Power in Shadar Logoth , where Sammael is destroyed by Mashadar . Rand then takes the crown of Illian , formerly the Laurel Crown , but now called the Crown of Swords . Egwene al Vere and Siuan Sanche attempt to manipulate the Aes Sedai rebels in Salidar to move against Elaida s Aes Sedai in the White Tower in Tar Valon . After Egwene and Siuan investigate Siuan s suspicions about Myrelle , Egwene exploits the transfer of Lan s Warder bond from Moiraine to Myrelle in order to force Myrelle and Nisao to swear fealty to her . In the city of Ebou Dar in Altara , Elayne Trakand , Nynaeve al Meara , Aviendha , and Mat Cauthon search for a ter angreal , the Bowl of the Winds , to break the unnatural heat brought on by the Dark One s manipulation of climate . They find it and enlist the help of the Kin and the Atha an Miere , or Sea Folk . They also confront a Gholam . Mat is left behind after searching for Olver , and is caught in the fighting as the Seanchan invade Ebou Dar . 
 The novel is set in South Wales in the reign of Queen Victoria . It tells the story of the Morgans , a respectable mining family of the South Wales Valleys , through the eyes of the youngest son , Huw Morgan . Huw s academic ability sets him apart from his elder brothers and enables him to consider a future away from this troubled industrial environment . His five brothers and his father are miners after the eldest brother , Ivor , is killed in an mining accident , Huw moves in with his sister in law , Bronwen , with whom he has always been in love . One of Huw s three sisters , Angharad , marries the wealthy mine owner s son , whom she does not love , and the marriage is an unhappy one . She never overcomes her clandestine relationship with the local minister . Huw s father is later killed in a mine explosion . After everyone Huw has known either dies or moves away , he decides to leave as well , and tells us the story of his life just before he does . 
 Harvey Cheyne is the son of a wealthy railroad magnate and his wife , who are over indulgent parents in San Diego , California . Washed overboard from a transatlantic steamship and rescued by fishermen off the Grand Banks of Newfoundland , the young Harvey Cheyne cannot persuade them to take him quickly to port , nor convince them of his wealth . Disko Troop , captain of the We re Here , offers him a job as part of the crew until they return to port . With no other choice , Harvey accepts . Through a series of trials and adventures , the youth learns to adjust to his rough new life and , with the help of his friend , the captain s son Dan Troop , he makes progress . Eventually , the schooner returns to port and Harvey wires his parents . They rush cross country by their private rail car , given priority over commercial traffic , to Boston , Massachusetts . From there they go to the fishing town of Gloucester to find that their son has matured to become an industrious , serious and considerate young man . Harvey s mother rewards the seaman who initially rescued her son . Harvey s father rewards Captain Troop by hiring his son Dan to work on his prestigious tea clipper fleet . He is delighted at his son s new maturity and their relationship improves , even as Harvey decides to begin his career with his father s shipping lines . 
 The novel features scenes and events including the discovery of a near dead alien in the desert , who clearly says in English , I m sorry , but there is bad news , and this alien s subsequent interrogation and autopsy the discovery of an artificial geological formation and its subsequent nuclear destruction by a desperate military and the Earth s eventual destruction by the mutual annihilation of a piece of neutronium and a piece of antineutronium dropped into Earth s core . There is another alien faction at work , however , represented on Earth by small spider like robots that recruit human agents through some form of mind control . They frantically collect all the human data , biological records , tissue samples , seeds , and DNA from the biosphere that they can , and evacuate a handful of people from Earth . In space , this faction s machines combat and eventually destroy the attackers , though not before Earth s fate is sealed . The evacuees eventually settle a newly terraformed Mars while some form the crew of a Ship of the Law to hunt down the home world of the killers , a quest described in the sequel , Anvil of Stars . One of the point of view characters is Arthur Gordon , a scientist who , with his wife Francine and son Martin is among those rescued from the destruction of Earth . Some other characters are close to an American president who fails to take action against the threat . The two books show at least one solution to the Fermi paradox , with electromagnetically noisy civilisations being snuffed out by the arrival of self replicating machines designed to destroy any potential threat to their possibly long dead creators . A similar theme is explored in Fred Saberhagen s Berserker novels . 
 In the novel , renegade biotechnologist Vergil Ulam creates simple biological computers based on his own lymphocytes . Faced with orders from his nervous employer to destroy his work , he injects them into his own body , intending to smuggle the noocytes as he calls them out of the company and work on them elsewhere . Inside Ulam s body , the noocytes multiply and evolve rapidly , altering their own genetic material and quickly becoming self aware . The nanoscale civilization they construct soon begins to transform Ulam , then others . The people who are infected start to find that genetic faults such as myopia and high blood pressure are fixed . The bumps along the spine as well as the nipples fade . Finally , white stripes and ridges start growing over their bodies . Ulam reports that the cells seem to sing . Through infection , conversion and assimilation of humans and other organisms the cells eventually aggregate most of the biosphere of North America into a region seven thousand kilometres wide . This civilization , which incorporates both the evolved noocytes and recently assimilated conventional humans , is eventually forced to abandon the normal plane of existence in favor of one in which thought does not require a physical substrate . The reason for the noocytes inability to remain in this reality is somewhat related to the strong anthropic principle . The book s structure is titled inter phase , prophase , metaphase , anaphase , telophase and interphase . This mirrors the major phases of cell cycle interphase and mitosis . 
 The novel tells the story through a fictional first person narrator by the name of Roger Byam , based on actual crew member Peter Heywood . Byam , although not one of the mutineers , remains with the Bounty after the mutiny . He subsequently returns to Tahiti , and is eventually arrested and taken back to England to face a court martial . He and several other members of the crew are eventually acquitted . 
 The book combines Keel s account of his investigation into alleged sightings of a large , winged creature called Mothman in the vicinity of Point Pleasant , West Virginia , during 1966 and 1967 with his own theories about UFOs and various supernatural phenomena , ultimately connecting them to the December 15 , 1967 , collapse of the Silver Bridge across the Ohio River . 
 Humanity has lived for 40 million years on a planet called Harmony , after leaving an Earth that has been destroyed by human conflict . In order not to repeat the mistakes that led to the destruction of civilization on Earth , a computer , known as the Oversoul , was left as guardian of this planet . Its main mission was to prevent humans from developing technologies that could make wars a global affair . For that , humans were genetically modified so they could communicate with the Oversoul . The Oversoul uses this connection to make humans quite easily distracted when thinking about forbidden technologies , leading them to forget that train of thought . However , after this long time the Oversoul is beginning to fail , and it chooses a group of humans to return to Earth in search of the Keeper of Earth , in the hopes it will be able to find a way to maintain power over the people on Harmony . To this end the Oversoul recruits Volemak , father of the protagonist of the story , Nafai . Nafai and Issib , his brother , begin to try and defy the Oversoul s capability to override thought . Through this they learn of the danger that it is in . Nafai begins hearing the Oversoul s voice in his mind . The first book focuses on the family s eventual betrayal , the taking of the Index , and the downfall of the man Gaballufix , who had been planning to ally the city of Basilica , the home of the main characters and the setting of the first half of the book , with a malignant nation . Nafai , Elemak and Mebbekew , his older half brothers , Issib and his father Volemak are eventually forced to leave the city . They come back to retrieve the Index of the Oversoul , which allows them to communicate with it directly . Because of Nafai s careless blunders and miraculous successes , Elemak , Nafai s oldest brother , begins to hate him , a theme that will play out throughout the rest of the saga . 
 A top secret research facility hidden in the Colorado mountains is the last remaining outpost of the United States Army after its defeat by the PanAsians . The conquerors had absorbed the Soviets after being attacked by them and had then gone on to absorb India as well . The invaders are depicted as ruthless and cruel for example , they crush an abortive rebellion by killing 150 , 000 American civilians as punishment . The laboratory is in turmoil as the novel begins . All but six of the personnel have died suddenly , due to unknown forces released by an experiment operating within the newly discovered magneto gravitic or electro gravitic spectra . The surviving scientists soon learn that they can selectively kill people by releasing the internal pressure of their cell membranes , among other things . Using this discovery they construct a race selective weapon which will kill only Asians . They devise other uses for the awesome forces they have discovered , but how can a handful of men overthrow an occupation force that controls all communications and when it is a crime to print a word in English ? Noting that the invaders have allowed the free practice of religion the better to pacify their slaves , the Americans set up a church of their own and begin acting as Priests of Mota Mota is atom spelled backwards in order to build a resistance movement which Major Ardmore , the protagonist of the book , refers to as the Sixth Column as opposed to a traitorous fifth column . 
 After crossing the sea guided by the Bellman s map of the Ocean a blank sheet of paper the hunting party arrive in a strange land . The Baker recalls that his uncle once warned him that , though catching Snarks is all well and good , you must be careful for , if your Snark is a Boojum , then you will softly and suddenly vanish away , and never be met with again . With this in mind , they split up to hunt . Along the way , the Butcher and Beaver previously mutually wary for the Butcher s specialty in preparing beavers become fast friends , the Barrister falls asleep and dreams of a court trial defended by the Snark , and the Banker loses his sanity after being attacked by a frumious Bandersnatch . At the end , the Baker calls out that he has found a Snark but when the others arrive he has mysteriously disappeared , For the Snark was a Boojum , you see . 
 After World War II , three teenage boy rocket experimenters are recruited by the uncle of one of them , Dr . Cargraves , a Nobel Prize winning Physicist who had worked on the Manhattan Project , to refit a conventionally powered surplus mail rocket . It is to be converted to run on a thorium nuclear pile which boils zinc as a propellant . They use a cleared area in a military weapons test range in the desert for their work , despite prying and sabotage attempts by unknown agents . Upon completion of the modifications , they stock the rocket , which they name the Galileo , and take off for the Moon , taking approximately 11 days to arrive . After establishing a semi permanent structure based on a Quonset hut , they claim the moon on behalf of the United Nations . As they set up a radio to communicate with the Earth they pick up a local transmission , the sender of which promises to meet them . Instead , their ship is bombed . Fortunately , they are able to hole up undetected in their hut and succeed in ambushing the other ship when it lands , capturing the pilot . They discover that there is a Nazi base on the Moon . They bomb it from their captured ship and land . One survivor is found , revived , and questioned . The boys also find evidence of an ancient lunar civilization , and postulate that the craters of the moon were formed not by impacts from space , but by nuclear bombs that destroyed the alien race . When the base s Nazi leader shoots the pilot in order to silence him , Cargraves convenes a trial and find him guilty of murder . Cargraves pretends to prepare to execute the prisoner by ejecting him into vacuum . The Nazi capitulates in the airlock and teaches them how to fly the Nazi spaceship back to Earth . The boys radio the location of the hidden Nazi base on Earth to the authorities , leading to its destruction they return as heroes . 
 Published in French by Jean Jacques Pauvert , Story of O is a tale of female submission about a beautiful Parisian fashion photographer , O , who is blindfolded , chained , whipped , branded , pierced , made to wear a mask , and taught to be constantly available for oral , vaginal , and anal intercourse . Despite her harsh treatment , O grants permission beforehand for everything that occurs , and her permission is consistently sought . At the beginning of the story , O s lover , René , brings her to the château of Roissy , where she is trained to serve the men of an elite group . After this first period of training is finished , as a demonstration of their bond and his generosity , René hands O to Sir Stephen , a more dominant master . René wants O to learn to serve someone whom she does not love , and someone who does not love her . Over the course of this training , O falls in love with Sir Stephen and believes him to be in love with her as well . While her vain friend and lover , Jacqueline , is repulsed by O s chains and scars , O herself is proud of her condition as a willing slave . During the summer , Sir Stephen decides to move O to Samois , an old mansion solely inhabited by women for advanced training and body modifications related to submission . There she agrees to receive a branding and a labia piercing with rings marked with Sir Stephen s initials and insignia . At the climax , O appears as a slave , nude but for an owl like mask , before a large party of guests who treat her solely as an object . 
 An ancestor of John Thomas Stuart XI brought the alien , long lived Lummox home from an interstellar voyage . The articulate , sentient pet he inherited has gradually grown from the size of a collie pup to a ridable behemoth especially after consuming a used car . The childlike Lummox is perceived to be a neighborhood nuisance and , upon leaving the Stuart property one day , causes substantial property damage across the city of Westville . John s mother wants him to get rid of it , and a court orders it destroyed . Desperate to save his pet , John Thomas considers selling Lummox to a zoo . He rapidly changes his mind and runs away from home , riding into the nearby wilderness on Lummox s back . His girlfriend Betty Sorenson joins him and suggests bringing the beast back into town and hiding it in a neighbor s greenhouse . However , it isn t easy to conceal such a large creature . Eventually , the court tries to have Lummox destroyed , but is unable to do so , much to Lummox s amusement . Meanwhile , representatives of an advanced , powerful and previously unknown alien race appear and demand the return of their lost child . . . or else . A friendly alien diplomat of a third species intimates that the threat is not an empty one . Initially , no one associates Lummox with the newcomers , in part due to the size difference Lummox was overfed . Lummox is identified as royalty , complicating the already tense negotiations . It is discovered that , from her viewpoint , the young Lummox has been pursuing her only hobby and principal interest the raising of John Thomases . She makes it clear that she intends to continue doing so . This gives the chief human negotiator the leverage he needs to avert the destruction of Earth . At the request of Lummox , the recently married John and Betty accompany her back to her people as members of the human diplomatic mission . 
 After recovering from tetrodotoxin poisoning inflicted by SMERSH agent Rosa Klebb see From Russia , with Love MI6 agent James Bond is sent by his superior , M , on a rest cure to Jamaica . Whilst there his task is a simple assignment to investigate the disappearance of Commander John Strangways , the head of MI6 Station J in Kingston , Jamaica , and his secretary . Bond is briefed that Strangways had been investigating the activities of Dr . Julius No , a reclusive Chinese German who lives on Crab Key and runs a guano mine the island is said to be the home of a vicious dragon with a colony of Roseate Spoonbills at one end . The Spoonbills are protected by the National Audubon Society , two of whose representatives had died when their plane crashed on Dr . No s airstrip . On his arrival in Jamaica , Bond soon realises that he is being watched , as his hotel room is searched , a basket of poisoned fruit is delivered to his hotel room supposedly a gift from the colonial governor and a deadly centipede is placed in his bed while he is sleeping . With the help of old friend Quarrel , Bond visits Crab Key to establish if there is a connection between Dr . No and Strangways disappearance . There he and Quarrel meet Honeychile Rider , who visits the island to collect valuable shells . Bond and Honey are captured by No s men after Quarrel is burned to death by the doctor s dragon nbsp a flamethrowing armoured swamp buggy to keep away trespassers . Bond discovers that Dr . No is also working with the Russians and has built an elaborate underground facility from which he can sabotage American missile tests at nearby Cape Canaveral . No had previously been a member of a Chinese Tong , but after he stole a large amount of money from their treasury , he was captured by the organisation , whose leaders had his hands cut off as a sign of punishment for theft , and then ordered him shot . The Tong thought they shot him through the heart . However , because No s heart was on the right hand side of his body dextrocardia , the bullet missed his heart and he survived . Interested in the ability of the human body to withstand and survive pain , No forces Bond to navigate his way through an obstacle course constructed in the facility s ventilation system . He is kept under regular observation , suffering electric shocks , burns and an encounter with large poisonous spiders along the way . The ordeal ends in a fight against a captive giant squid , which Bond defeats by using improvised and stolen objects made into weapons . After his escape he encounters Honey from her ordeal where she had been pegged out to be eaten by crabs the crabs ignored her and she had managed to make good her own escape . Bond kills Dr . No by taking over the guano loading machine at the docks and diverting the guano flow from it to bury the villain alive . Bond and Honey then escape from No s complex in the dragon buggy . 
 Set in the late 1960s and 1970s , the story describes the efforts of Episcopal Bishop Timothy Archer , who must cope with the theological and philosophical implications of the newly discovered Gnostic Zadokite scroll fragments . The character of Bishop Archer is loosely based on the controversial , iconoclastic Episcopal Bishop James Pike , who in 1969 died of exposure while exploring the Judean Desert near the Dead Sea in the West Bank . As the novel opens , it is 1980 . On the day that John Lennon is shot and killed , Angel Archer visits the houseboat of Edgar Barefoot , a guru , and reflects on the lives of her deceased relatives . During the sixties , she was married to Jeff Archer , son of the Episcopal Bishop of California Timothy Archer . She introduced Kirsten Lundborg , a friend , to her father in law , and the two began an affair . Kirsten has a son , Bill , from a previous relationship , who has schizophrenia , although he is knowledgeable as an automobile mechanic . Tim is already being investigated for his gnostic , allegedly heretical views about the Zadokite scrolls , which reproduce some of Jesus Christ s statements about the world , but have been dated to the second century before the birth of Christ . Jeff commits suicide due to his romantic obsession with Kirsten . However , after poltergeist activity , he manifests to Tim and Kirsten at a seance , also attended by Angel . Angel is sceptical about the efficacy of astrology , and believes that the unfolding existential situation of Tim and Kirsten is akin to Friedrich Schiller s German Romanticism era masterpiece , the Wallenstein trilogy insofar as their credulity reflects the loss of rational belief in contemporary consensual reality . The three are told that Kirsten and Tim will die . As predicted , Kirsten loses her remission from cancer , and also commits suicide after a barbiturate overdose . Tim travels to Israel to investigate whether or not a psychotropic mushroom was associated with the resurrection , but his car stalls , he becomes disoriented , falls from a cliff , and dies in the desert . On the houseboat , Angel is reunited with Bill , Kirsten s son who has schizophrenia . He claims to have Tim s reincarnated spirit within him , but is soon reinsitutionalised . Angel agrees to care for Bill , in return for a rare record that Edgar offers her . Transmigration is one of Dick s most overtly philosophical and intellectual works . While Dick s novels usually employ multiple narrators or an omniscient perspective , this story is told in the first person by a single narrator Angel Archer , Bishop Archer s daughter in law . Dick s work was often criticized for its flat , stereotypical female characters , so Angel may represent his effort to prove he could create a rich and believable feminine voice . 
 The story begins on Epiphany 6 January , 1482 , the day of the Feast of Fools in Paris , France . Quasimodo , a deformed hunchback who is the bell ringer of Notre Dame , is introduced by his crowning as the Pope of Fools . Esmeralda , a beautiful Gypsy with a kind and generous heart , captures the hearts of many men , including those of Captain Phoebus and Pierre Gringoire , a poor street poet , but especially those of Quasimodo and his adoptive father , Claude Frollo , the Archdeacon of Notre Dame . Frollo is torn between his obsessive love and the rules of the church . He orders Quasimodo to kidnap her , but the hunchback is suddenly captured by Phoebus and his guards who save Esmeralda . Quasimodo is sentenced to be flogged and turned on the pillory for one hour , followed by another hour s public exposure . He calls for water . Esmeralda , seeing his thirst , offers him a drink . It saves him , and she captures his heart . Esmeralda is later charged with the attempted murder of Phoebus , whom Frollo actually attempted to kill in jealousy after seeing him about to have sex with Esmeralda , and is tortured and sentenced to death by hanging . As she is being led to the gallows , Quasimodo swings down by the bell rope of Notre Dame and carries her off to the cathedral under the law of sanctuary . Clopin , a street performer , rallies the Truands criminals of Paris to charge the cathedral and rescue Esmeralda . Frollo asks the king to remove Esmeralda s right to sanctuary so she can no longer seek shelter in the church and will be taken from the church and killed . When Quasimodo sees the Truands , he assumes they are there to hurt Esmeralda , so he drives them off . Likewise , he thinks the King s men want to rescue her , and tries to help them find her . She is rescued by Frollo and her phony husband Gringoire . But after yet another failed attempt to win her love , Frollo betrays Esmeralda by handing her to the troops and watches while she is being hanged . When Frollo laughs during Esmeralda s hanging , Quasimodo pushes him from the heights of Notre Dame to his death . Quasimodo then goes to the vaults under the huge gibbet of Montfaucon , and lies next to Esmeralda s corpse , where it had been unceremoniously thrown after the execution . He stays at Montfaucon , and eventually dies of starvation . About eighteen months later , the tomb is opened , and the skeletons are found . As someone tries to separate them , Quasimodo s bones turn to dust . 
 Ojo the Unlucky is a Munchkin boy who , devoted to life with his uncle Unc Nunkie in the wilderness but on the verge of starvation , goes to see a neighboring magician and old friend of Unc s , Dr . Pipt . While there they see a demonstration of the Pipt made Powder of Life , which animates any object it touches . Unc Nunkie and Dr . Pipt s wife are also the sufferers of the consequences of another of the Doctor s inventions , the Liquid of Petrifaction , which turns them into solid marble statues . The remainder of this book is Ojo s quest through Oz to retrieve the five components of an antidote to the Liquid a six leaved clover found only in the Emerald City , three hairs from the tip of a Woozy s tail , a gill a quarter of a pint of water from a dark well one that remains untouched by natural light , a drop of oil from a live man s body , and the left wing of a yellow butterfly . With the help of the patchwork girl Scraps , Bungle the Glass Cat another of Dr . Pipt s creations , the Woozy , Dorothy , the Shaggy Man , the Scarecrow , and the Tin Woodman , Ojo gathers all of these supplies but the left wing mdash the Tin Woodman will not allow any living thing to be killed , even to save another s life . The party returns to the Emerald City , where the Wizard of Oz one of the few allowed to lawfully practice magic in Oz restores Unc Nunkie and Dr . Pipt s wife . The story is also a growth process for Ojo he learns that luck is not a matter of who you are or what you have , but what you do he is renamed Ojo the Lucky , and so he appears in the following Oz books . 
 The book is a memoir of Maureen Johnson Smith Long , mother , lover , and eventual wife of Lazarus Long . Maureen is ostensibly recording the events of the book while being held in a future prison , awaiting her uncertain fate , along with Pixel , the eponymous character of The Cat Who Walks Through Walls . Maureen , born on July 4 , 1882 , recounts her girlhood in Kansas City , young adulthood , discovery that her family is a member of the long lived Howard Families whose backstory is revealed in Methuselah s Children , marriage to Brian Smith , another member of that family , and her life until her accidental death in 1982 . Maureen lives through , and gives her sometimes contradictory viewpoints on many events in other Heinlein stories , most notably the 1917 visit from the future by Ted Bronson in actuality Lazarus Long , told from Long s point of view in Time Enough for Love , D . D . Harriman s space program from The Man Who Sold the Moon and the rolling roads from The Roads Must Roll . The adventures of Maureen are a series of sexual ones , starting with Heinlein describing her as a young girl who , having just had her first sexual intercourse , is examined by her father , a doctor , and finds herself desiring him sexually . Her sexual life story then continues featuring various boys , her husband , ministers , other women s husbands , boyfriends , swinging sessions , and the adult Lazarus Long Theodore Bronson . Additionally , she continues a lifelong pursuit of her father sexually , encourages her husband to have sexual intercourse with their daughters , and accompanies him when he does but forbids a son and daughter of hers from continuing an incestuous relationship , primarily for the sister s reluctance to share the brother with other women . All of these are set against a history lesson of an alternate 20th century in which a variety of social and philosophical commentary is delivered . She is eventually rescued by Lazarus Long and other characters drawn from various novels in the ship Gay Deceiver from The Number of the Beast , and after rescuing her father from certain death in the Battle of Britain , is united with her descendants in a massive group marriage in the settlement of Boondock , on the planet Tertius . Maureen ends her memoir and the Lazarus Long saga with the phrase And we all lived happily ever after . 
 The story , which is told in the first person , centers on down and out actor Lawrence Smith stage name Lorenzo Smythe , a . k . a . The Great Lorenzo . A brilliant actor and mimic or so we are told , by Smith himself , he is down to his last coin when a spaceman hires him to double for a public figure . It is only when he is on his way to Mars that he finds out how deeply he has been deceived he will have to impersonate one of the most prominent politicians in the solar system and one with whose views Smythe deeply disagrees John Joseph Bonforte . Bonforte is the leader of the Expansionist coalition , currently out of office but with a good chance of changing that at the next general election . Bonforte has been kidnapped by his political opponents , and his aides want Smith to impersonate Bonforte while they try to find him . Bonforte is rescued , but he is in poor health due to the treatment inflicted on him during his imprisonment . This forces Smith to extend his performance , even to becoming temporary Supreme Minister and running in an election . This is made plausible through Bonforte s extensive Farley Files . The central political issue in the election is the granting of the vote to Martians in the human dominated Solar System . Lorenzo shares the anti Martian prejudice prevalent among large parts of Earth s population , but he is called upon to assume the persona of the most prominent advocate for Martian enfranchisement . Smith takes on not only Bonforte s appearance , but some aspects of his personality . At the moment of electoral victory , Bonforte dies of the aftereffects of his kidnapping , and Smythe realizes he has little choice but to assume the role for life . In a retrospective conclusion set twenty five years later , Lorenzo has become Bonforte , suppressing his own identity permanently . He has been generally successful and has carried forward Bonforte s ideals to the best of his ability . Penny Bonforte s adoring secretary now Smith Bonforte s wife says , I never loved anyone else . At the end , Lorenzo looks back on his former life , including the prejudices he used to hold , commenting that they seem to him like they happened to someone else . 
 Evelyn Cyril E . C . Gordon also known as Easy and Flash has been recently discharged from an unnamed war in Southeast Asia . He is pondering what to do with his future and considers spending a year traveling in France . He is presented with a dilemma follow up on a possible winning entry in the Irish Sweepstakes or respond to a newspaper ad which asks Are you a coward ? . He settles on the latter discovering it has been placed by Star , a stunningly gorgeous woman he had previously met on Île du Levant . Star informs him that he is the one to embark on a perilous quest to retrieve the Egg of the Phoenix . When she asks what to call him , he wants to suggest Scarface , referring to the scar on his face , but she stops him as he is saying Oh , Scar . . . and repeats this as Oscar , and thus gives him his new name . Along with Rufo , her assistant , who appears to be a man in his fifties , they tread the Glory Road in swashbuckling style , slaying minotaurs , dragons , and other creatures . Shortly before the final quest for the Egg itself , Oscar and Star get married . The team then proceeds to enter the tower in which the Egg has been hidden , navigating a maze of illusions and optical tricks . Oscar scouts ahead and finds himself crossing swords with a fearsome foe who resembles Cyrano de Bergerac . He then defeats the final guardian of the Egg , known only as the Never Born , in a mental fight , and the party escapes with the Egg . While they arrive in the universe of Star , Rufo informs Oscar that Star is actually the empress of many worlds and Rufo s grandmother . The Egg is a cybernetic device that contains the knowledge and experiences of most of her predecessors . Despite her youthful appearance , she is the mother of dozens of children , and has undergone special medical treatments that extend her life much longer than usual . She has Oscar unknowingly receive the same treatments . Initially , Oscar enjoys his new found prestige and luxurious life as the husband of the empress of worlds across the Twenty Universes . However , as time goes on , he grows bored and feels out of place and useless . When he demands Star s professional judgment , she tells him that he must leave her world has no place or need for a hero of his stature . It will be decades before she can complete the transfer of the knowledge held in the Egg , so he must go alone . He returns to Earth , but has difficulty readjusting to his own world , despite having brought great wealth along with him . He begins to doubt his own sanity and whether the adventure even happened . The story ends as he is contacted by Rufo to set up another trip on the Glory Road , which is , by this point , revealed as an allegory for Life s Adventure . 
 The story takes place about 2015 AD , against a background of an overpopulated Earth , whose dysfunctional society is clearly an attempt to extrapolate into the future the rapid social changes taking place in the U . S . during the 1960s . Ancient billionaire Johann Sebastian Bach Smith is dying , and wants to have his brain transplanted into a new body . Smith advertises an offer of a million dollars for the donation of a body from a brain dead patient . Coincidentally , his beautiful young female secretary , Eunice Branca , is murdered , so her body is used , since Smith never thought to place any restriction on the sex of the donor . He is rechristened Joan Eunice Smith . For reasons never made clear , Eunice s personality continues to co inhabit the body . Whether Eunice s personality is real or a figment of Johann s imagination is addressed but never fully resolved in the novel . Joan and Eunice agree never to reveal her continued existence , fearing that they would be judged insane and locked up . The two of them speculate that it may have something to do with the supposed ability of animals to remember things using RNA rather than the nervous system . At the time the book was published , biologist J . V . McConnell had done a series of experiments in which he taught a behavior to flatworms , ground them up , and fed them to other flatworms , which supposedly exhibited the same behavior . McConnell s experiments were later discredited , but ideas drawn from them were used in science fiction by several authors , including Heinlein , Larry Niven , Joe Haldeman and Dean Koontz . However , Joan and Eunice decide that this possible explanation is irrelevant , and near the end of the book , a third personality , that of Joan s new husband , joins them by means that can only be explained via delusion , religion or mysticism , not science . 
 A writer seated at the best restaurant of the space habitat Golden Rule is approached by a man who urges him that Tolliver must die and is himself shot before the writer s eyes . The writer Colonel Colin Campbell , living under a number of aliases including his pen name Richard Ames is joined by a beautiful and sophisticated lady , Gwendolyn Novak , who helps him flee to Luna with a bonsai maple and a would be murderer Bill . After escaping to the moon , Gwen refers to the now ancient Lunar Revolt as described in The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress and Mike Mycroft , the self aware computer responsible for the uprising s victory , and claims to have been present during the revolt despite her claim that she was only a girl at the time , Campbell grows suspicious , and learns that she is a rejuvenation of the revolution s most prominent female leader . Still pursued by assassins , Campbell and Novak are rescued by an organization known as the Time Corps under the leadership of Lazarus Long . After giving Campbell a new leg to replace one lost in combat years before , the Time Corps attempt to recruit Campbell for a special mission . Accepting only on Gwen s account , Campbell agrees to assist a team to retrieve the decommissioned Mike . Engaged in frequent time travel , the Time Corps has been responsible for changing various events in the past , creating an alternate universe with every time line they disrupt . Mike s assistance is needed in order to accurately predict the conditions and following events in each of the new universes created . Campbell s frequent would be assassins are revealed to be members of contemporary agencies also engaged in time manipulation who , for unknown reasons , do not want to see Mike rescued by the Time Corps . During the mission , Gwen is grievously wounded and Campbell loses his foot again , though the Time Corps succeed in retrieving Mike . The story ends with Campbell talking into a recorder presumably the source of the first person medium through which the story is told reflecting on the mission and his relationship with Gwen . 
 Between World War I and II , a tremendously wealthy Englishman , Bartlebooth whose name combines two literary characters , Herman Melville s Bartleby and Valery Larbaud s Barnabooth , devises a plan that will both occupy the remainder of his life and spend his entire fortune . First , he spends 10 years learning to paint watercolors under the tutelage of Valène , who also becomes a resident of 11 Rue Simon Crubellier . Then , he embarks on a 20 year trip around the world with his loyal servant Smautf also a resident of 11 rue Simon Crubellier , painting a watercolor of a different port roughly every two weeks for a total of 500 watercolors . Bartlebooth then sends each painting back to France , where the paper is glued to a support board , and a carefully selected craftsman named Gaspard Winckler also a resident of 11 rue Simon Crubellier cuts it into a jigsaw puzzle . Upon his return , Bartlebooth spends his time solving each jigsaw , re creating the scene . Each finished puzzle is treated to re bind the paper with a special solution invented by Georges Morellet , another resident of 11 rue Simon Crubellier . After the solution is applied , the wooden support is removed , and the painting is sent to the port where it was painted . Exactly 20 years to the day after it was painted , the painting is placed in a detergent solution until the colors dissolve , and the paper , blank except for the faint marks where it was cut and re joined , is returned to Bartlebooth . Ultimately , there would be nothing to show for 50 years of work the project would leave absolutely no mark on the world . Unfortunately for Bartlebooth , Winckler s puzzles become increasingly difficult and Bartlebooth himself becomes blind . A crazed art fanatic also intervenes in an attempt to stop Bartlebooth from destroying his art . Bartlebooth is forced to change his plans and have the watercolors burned in a furnace locally instead of couriered back to the sea , for fear of those involved in the task betraying him . By 1975 , Bartlebooth is 16 months behind in his plans , and he dies while he is about to finish his 439th puzzle . Ironically , the last hole in the puzzle is in the shape of the letter X while the piece that he is holding is in the shape of the letter W . 
 The development of the novel can be split into segments . The first chapters 1 11 broadly follows the story fragmented between characters , but in a single chronological time in 1943 . The second chapters 12 20 flashes back to focus primarily on the Great Big Siege of Bologna before once again jumping to the chronological present of 1943 in the third part chapter 21 25 . The fourth chapters 26 28 flashes back to the origins and growth of Milo s syndicate , with the fifth part chapter 28 32 returning again to the narrative present but keeping to the same tone of the previous four . In the sixth and final part chapter 32 on while remaining in the present time the novel takes a much darker turn and spends the remaining chapters focusing on the serious and brutal nature of war and life in general . While the first five parts sections develop the novel in the present and through use of flash backs , the novel significantly darkens in chapters 32 41 . Previously the reader had been cushioned from experiencing the full horror of events , but now the events are laid bare , allowing the full effect to take place . The horror begins with the attack on the undefended Italian mountain village , with the following chapters involving despair Doc Daneeka and the Chaplain , disappearance in combat Orr and Clevinger , disappearance caused by the army Dunbar or death Nately , McWatt , Mudd , Kid Sampson , Dobbs , Chief White Halfoat and Hungry Joe of most of Yossarian s friends , culminating in the unspeakable horrors of Chapter 39 , in particular the rape and murder of Michaela , who represents pure innocence . In Chapter 41 , the full details of the gruesome death of Snowden are finally revealed . Despite this , the novel ends on an upbeat note with Yossarian learning of Orr s miraculous escape to Sweden and Yossarian s pledge to follow him there . 
 The novel is set prior to the Constitution of 1782 and tells the story of four generations of Rackrent heirs through their steward , Thady Quirk . The heirs are the dissipated spendthrift Sir Patrick O Shaughlin , the litigious Sir Murtagh Rackrent , the cruel husband and gambling absentee Sir Kit Stopgap , and the generous but improvident Sir Condy Rackrent . Their sequential mismanagement of the estate is resolved through the machinations and to the benefit of the narrator s astute son , Jason Quirk . 
 The Wasp Factory of the title is a huge clock face encased in a glass box and salvaged from the local dump . Behind each of the 12 numerals is a trap which leads to a different ritual death for example burning , crushing , or drowning in Frank s urine for the wasp that Frank puts into the hole at the center within tubes . Frank believes the death chosen by the wasp predicts something about the future . There are also Sacrifice Poles , upon which hang the bodies and heads of larger animals , such as seagulls , that Frank has killed and other sacred items . They define and protect the borders of Frank s territory the island upon which he lives with his father . Frank occupies himself with his rituals and maintaining an array of weapons from his catapult , to pipe bombs and a crude flame thrower to control the island . Frank is haunted by an accident which resulted in the loss of his genitalia , and resents others for his impotence , particularly women . He goes for long walks and runs patrolling the island , and occasionally gets drunk with his dwarf friend Jamie in the local pub . Other than that , Frank has almost no contact with the outside world and admits that he is afraid of it due to what it did to his brother , Eric . Frank s older brother Eric is in an insane asylum after being arrested for brutalizing the town s dogs . He escapes at the start of the novel and throughout the book rings Frank from phone boxes to inform Frank of his progress back to the island . Their conversations invariably end badly , with Eric exploding in fits of rage . Frank is confused as to whether or not he is looking forward to seeing Eric , but it is clear Frank loves his brother dearly . Frank remembers his older brother as being extremely sensitive before the incident that drove him mad a tragic case of neglect in a hospital where Eric was a volunteer . While attempting to feed a smiling brain damaged child with acalvaria , Eric realizes that the patient is unresponsive and only smiling off into space . He checks the usually alert patient s head dressings to find the child s exposed brain tissue infested with day old maggots . At the end of the novel , Eric s imminent return precipitates a series of events that result in Frank discovering male hormone drugs in his father s study . After confronting his father , Frank finds out that he is in fact female , and that when he thought he was castrated by a dog mauling at an early age , Frank s father had simply pumped her full of male hormones to see if she would transition from female to male . The father said it was simply an experiment and there are hints it was in order to distance himself from the women he felt had ruined his life . 
 Two days ago I decided to kill myself . I would walk and hitch and sail away from this dark city to the bright spaces of the wet west coast , and there throw myself into the tall , glittering seas beyond Iona with its cargo of mouldering kings to let the gulls and seals and tides have their way with my remains , and in my dying moments look forward to an encounter with Staffa s six sided columns and Fingal s cave or I might head south to Corryvrecken , to be spun inside the whirlpool and listen with my waterlogged deaf ears to its mile wide voice ringing over the wave race or be borne north , to where the white sands sing and coral hides , pink fingered and hard soft , beneath the ocean swell , and the rampart cliffs climb thousand foot above the seething acres of milky foam , rainbow buttressed . Last night I changed my mind and decided to stay alive . Everything that follows is . . . just to try and explain . Weir starts out in the Ferguslie Park area of Paisley in a very underprivileged Catholic family . He is impressed by a group named Frozen Gold when he sees them live , in the Union of Paisley College of Technology , and auditions with them . Christine Brice likes his songs , and he joins the band . He ends up writing all their material and playing bass guitar , after trying unsuccessfully to get them to change their name as the band rises in the drug and booze fuelled rock and roll of the 1970s , assisted by A R man Rick Tumber of ARC Records . In the Three Chimneys tour , singer Davey Balfour takes Dan along on an attempt to break an unofficial and illegal speed record for flying around three power station chimneys in Kent in his private plane . He reminisces about this from 1980s Glasgow , where he lives as a recluse in a Victorian folly St Jutes , ever since the tragic events which led to the demise of the band . He is posing as his own caretaker , and his friends McCann and Wee Tommy know him as Jimmy Hay . After a memorable fight in a nightclub called 39 Monty 39 s 39 , his real identity is revealed . He has grown uncomfortable with fame and wealth , and eventually visits his first girlfriend , Jean Webb , now living in Arisaig . 
 This Bildungsroman is set in the fictional Argyll town of Gallanach by its description , reminiscent of Oban but on the north east shore of Loch Crinan , the real village of Lochgair , and in Glasgow where Prentice McHoan lives . Prentice s uncle Rory has disappeared eight years previous while writing a book called The Crow Road . Prentice becomes obsessed with papers his uncle left behind and sets out to solve the mystery . Along the way he must cope with estrangement from his father , unrequited love , sibling rivalry , and failure at his studies . The estrangement from his father concerns belief in God or an afterlife . Prentice cannot accept a universe without some higher power , some purpose he can t believe that people can just cease to exist when they die . His father dogmatically denies the existence of God , universal purpose , and the afterlife . A parallel plot is Prentice s gradual transition from an adolescent fixation on one young woman to a more mature love for another . Prentice s efforts to piece together Uncle Rory s fragmentary notes and the minimal clues surrounding his disappearance mirror his efforts to make sense of the world , love , and life in general . The narrative is also fragmentary , leaping days , months , years , or decades back and forth with little or no warning , so the reader must also piece things together . 
 The story examines religion through the eyes of Alex , a Christian political activist who is corrupted by Margrethe , a Danish Norse cruise ship hostess mdash and who loves every minute of it . Enduring a shipwreck , an earthquake , and a series of world changes brought about by Loki with Jehovah s permission , Alex and Marga work their way from Mexico back to Kansas as dishwasher and waitress . Whenever they manage to make some stake , an inconveniently timed change into a new alternate reality throws them off their stride once , the money they earned is left behind in another reality in another case , the paper money earned in a Mexico which is an empire is worthless in another Mexico which is a republic . These repeated misfortunes , clearly effected by some malevolent entity , make the hero identify with the Biblical Job . On the way they unknowingly enjoy the Texas hospitality of Satan himself , but as they near their destination they are separated by the Rapture mdash Margrethe worships Odin , and pagans do not go to Heaven . Finding that the reward for his faith , eternity as promised in the Revelation , is worthless without her , Alex s journey through timeless space in search of his lost lady takes him to Hell and beyond . Heinlein s vivid depiction of a Heaven ruled by snotty angels and a Hell where everyone has a wonderful , or at least productive , time mdash with Mary Magdalene shuttling breezily between both places mdash is a satire on American evangelical Christianity . It owes much to Mark Twain s Captain Stormfield s Visit to Heaven . The novel is linked to Heinlein s short story , They , by the term , the Glaroon , and to his earlier novel The Moon is a Harsh Mistress by referring to the Moon colonies Luna City and Tycho Under . 
 The story is set in a future , overcrowded Earth , where food is carefully rationed . Teenager William Bill Lermer lives with his widower father , George . George decides to emigrate to the farming colony on Ganymede , one of Jupiter s moons . After marrying Molly Kenyon , George , Bill and Molly s daughter Peggy embark on the torchship Mayflower . On the journey , Bill saves his bunkmates from asphyxiation by improvising a patch when a meteor punctures their compartment . To combat the boredom of the long trip , the Boy Scouts among the passengers form troops , and all the children attend classes . When they arrive on Ganymede , an unpleasant surprise awaits the newcomers . The group is much larger than the colony can easily absorb . The farms they were promised do not yet exist . In fact , the soil has to be created from scratch by pulverizing boulders and lava flows , and seeding the resulting dust with carefully formulated organic material . While some whine about the injustice of it all , Bill accepts an invitation to live with a prosperous farmer and his family to learn what he needs to know , while his father signs on as an engineer in town . Peggy is unable to adjust to the low pressure atmosphere and has to stay in a bubble in the hospital . When the Lermers are finally reunited on their own homestead , they build their house with a pressurized room for Peggy . One day , a rare alignment of all of Jupiter s major moons causes a devastating moon quake which damages most of the buildings . Peggy is seriously injured when her room suffers an explosive decompression . Even worse , the machinery that maintains Ganymede s heat shield is knocked out and the temperature starts dropping rapidly . George quickly realizes what has happened and gets his family to the safety of the town . Others do not grasp their peril soon enough and either stay in their homes or start for town too late two thirds of the colonists perish , either from the quake or by freezing . The Lermers consider returning to Earth , but then Peggy dies . In true pioneer spirit , they decide to stay and rebuild . The colony gradually recovers , and an expedition is organized to survey more of Ganymede . Bill goes along as the cook . While exploring , he and a friend discover artifacts of an alien civilization , including a working land vehicle that has legs , like a large metal centipede . This proves fortuitous when Bill s appendix bursts and they miss the rendezvous . The shuttle picks up the rest of the group and leaves without the pair . They travel cross country to reach the next landing site . Bill is then taken to the hospital for a life saving operation . 
 The book s protagonist is Friday Baldwin , an artificial person both mentally and physically superior in many ways to an ordinary human , but she faces great prejudice and will most likely be killed if her non human status is discovered . Employed as a highly self sufficient combat courier , her various missions take her throughout the globe and also to some of the near Earth space colonies . The novel is set in a complex , Balkanized world , and Friday is caught up in several civil disturbances during the course of her travels . She reaches her employer s home base safely but is soon displaced . Sent on a space journey as a courier , she realizes that the journey is likely to end with her death , evades the ship s authorities , and settles on a pioneer world with friends made earlier in the narrative . 
 The story centers around Delos David Harriman , the lead character of The Man Who Sold The Moon . Harriman , a tycoon and latter day robber baron , had always dreamed of going to the Moon , and had spent much of his career and resources making space flight a practical commercial enterprise . Unfortunately , his business partners prevented him from taking the early flights as shown in the novella . Now an old man , Harriman has still not been to the Moon , a fact that frustrates him , since he lives in a world where space travel is so commonplace that carnivals have their own barnstorming spacecraft . No longer bound by his contractual obligations , he is now too old he is unable to pass the medical examination needed for space travel . Very wealthy , Harriman bribes two spacemen to help him get to the Moon after encountering them at a funfair in Butler , a small town outside Kansas City , Missouri , where they sell rides on their old , somewhat run down ship . The town is Heinlein s birthplace . The three of them fight many obstacles , including Harriman s heirs , who want him declared mentally incompetent or senile before he can spend their inheritance . In the end , Harriman finally makes it to the Moon , only to die on the surface soon after landing , content at finally having reached his goal . His body is left there , with his epitaph scrawled on the tag from an oxygen bottle . It is Robert Louis Stevenson s Requiem , which is inscribed on his own headstone in Samoa . Under the wide and starry sky Dig the grave and let me lie Glad did I live and gladly die , And I laid me down with a will ! This be the verse you grave for me Here he lies where he longed to be Home is the sailor , home from the sea , And the hunter home from the hill . 
 The book is a series of diary entries by each of the four main characters Zebadiah John Carter , programmer Dejah Thoris Deety Burroughs Carter , her mathematics professor father Jacob Burroughs , and an off campus socialite Hilda Corners . The names Dejah Thoris , Burroughs , and Carter are overt references to John Carter and Dejah Thoris , the main protagonists of the Barsoom Mars novels of Edgar Rice Burroughs . The four travel in Zebadiah s spaceship Gay Deceiver , which is equipped with the professor s continua device and armed by the Australian Defence Force . The continua device was built by Professor Burroughs while he was formulating his theories on n dimensional non euclidean geometry . The geometry of the novel s universe contains six dimensions the three spatial dimensions known to the real world , and three time dimensions t , the real world s temporal dimension , tau , and teh . The continua device can travel on all six axes . The continua device allows travel into various fictional universes , such as the Land of Oz , as well as through time . An attempt to visit Barsoom takes them to an apparently different version of Mars seemingly under the colonial rule of the British Empire but near the end of the novel , Heinlein s recurring character Lazarus Long hints that they had traveled to Barsoom , and that its colonial status was an illusion imposed on them by the telepathically adept Barsoomians In the novel , the Biblical number of the beast turns out to be , not 666 , but 6 6 6 , or 10 , 314 , 424 , 798 , 490 , 535 , 546 , 171 , 949 , 056 , which is the number of parallel universes accessible through the continua device . 
 The book s central crime is a murder , which takes place before the novel opens . This is an Asimovian trademark , which he attributed to his own squeamishness and John Campbell s advice of beginning as late in the story as possible . Roj Nemmenuh Sarton , a Spacer Ambassador , lives in Spacetown , the Spacer outpost just outside New York City . For some time , he has tried to convince the Earth government to loosen its anti robot restrictions . One morning , he is discovered outside his home , his chest imploded by an energy blaster . The New York police commissioner charges Elijah with finding the murderer . Elijah must work with a Spacer partner , a highly advanced robot named R . Daneel Olivaw who is visually identical to a human , even though Elijah , like many Earth residents , has a low opinion of robots . Together , they search for the murderer and try to avert an interstellar diplomatic incident . One interesting aspect of the book is the contrast between Elijah , the human detective , and Daneel , the humanoid robot . Asimov uses the mechanical robot to inquire about human nature . When confronting a Medievalist who fears that robots will overcome humankind , Elijah argues that robots are inherently deficient . Being precision engineered calculating machines , they can have no appreciation of art , beauty , or God robots can understand only concepts expressible in mathematics . Nevertheless , in the concluding scene , R . Daneel exhibits a sense of morality . He argues that the captured murderer be treated leniently , telling his human companions that he now realizes the destruction of evil is less desirable than the conversion of evil into good . Quoting the Pericope Adulteræ , Daneel tells the murderer , Go , and sin no more ! 
 The story takes place on Trantor during the reign of Emperor Cleon I . It starts with Hari s presentation of a paper at a mathematics convention detailing how practical use of psychohistory might theoretically be possible . The Emperor of the Galactic Empire learns of this and wants to use Hari for political gain . After an interview with Hari , however , Cleon concludes that Hari is of no use to the Empire . Hari then meets reporter Chetter Hummin , who convinces him that Cleon s first minister Eto Demerzel is attempting to capture him , and that it is therefore imperative for Hari to escape and to try to make psychohistory practical . Thus , Hari goes on his Flight and is introduced to Dors Venabili by Hummin . Hari and Dors narrowly evade capture at Streeling University , following which the pair move to Mycogen . Hari and Dors are welcomed to Mycogen by Sunmaster Fourteen , the leader of Mycogen . Determined to work out his psychohistory with the knowledge that the Mycogenians supposedly possess , Hari decides to speak to a Mycogenian alone about history . He manages this by convincing Raindrop Forty three to show him the prized Mycogenian microfarms , a prized source of food for the aristocracy and Mycogenians alike . When Hari inquires about that the peculiar Mycogenian ways might be the product of religious belief , Raindrop Forty three is offended and says that the Mycogenians have something better History . Hari inquires into the source of Mycogenian history and Raindrop Forty three reveals that it is encompassed in The book . Hari asks for the book but Raindrop Forty three accepts on the condition that Hari allows her to touch his hair hair being expressively forbidden in Mycogenian society . When Hari starts reading the book , he finds it disappointing except for the revealing of what the Mycogenians call their home planet , Aurora . Hari and Dors are almost killed when they try to find what they suspect is a robot in the Mycogenian temple until Hummin arrives in the nick of time to save them . The action then shifts to the Dahl sector , where Dors displays her amazing knife fighting skills . While in Dahl they meet a guttersnipe named Raych whom Hari later adopts as his son , and Yugo Amaryl who would become Hari s partner in developing psychohistory . Towards the end of the novel , Hari , Dors , and Raych are kidnapped by agents from Wye , a powerful sector situated at Trantor s south pole . The finale reveals that Hummin is actually Cleon s first minister Eto Demerzel , who we later learn is in fact the robot R . Daneel Olivaw . By the end of the novel , Hari suspects that Dors is a robot , too . This theme would later be picked up in Forward the Foundation . 
 The Stones , a family of Loonies residents of the Moon , known as Luna in Latin , purchase and rebuild a used spaceship , and go sightseeing around the solar system . The twin teenage boys , Castor and Pollux , buy used bicycles to sell on Mars , their first stop , where they run afoul of import regulations and are freed by their grandmother Hazel Stone . While on Mars , the twins buy their brother Buster a native Martian creature called a flat cat , born pregnant and producing a soothing vibration , as a pet . In the Asteroid Belt , where the equivalent of a gold rush is in progress prospecting for radioactive ores , the twins obtain supplies and luxury goods , on grounds that shopkeepers are much likelier to be rich than miners . En route , the flat cat and its offspring overpopulate the ship , so that the family place them in hibernation , and later sell them to the miners . Subsequently , the family set out to see the rings . 
 Three down and out gringos meet by chance in a Mexican city and discuss how to overcome their financial distress . They then set out to discover gold in the remote Sierra Madre mountains . They ride a train into the hinterlands , surviving a bandit attack en route . Once in the desert , Howard , the old timer of the group , quickly proves to be by far the toughest and most knowledgeable he is the one to discover the gold they are seeking . A mine is dug , and much gold is extracted , but greed soon begins and Fred C . Dobbs begins to lose both his trust and his mind , lusting to possess the entire treasure . The bandits then reappear , pretending , very crudely , to be Federales . After a gunfight , a troop of real Federales arrives and drives the bandits away . But when Howard is called away to assist some local villagers , Dobbs and third partner Curtin have a final confrontation , which Dobbs wins , leaving Curtin lying shot and bleeding . Dobbs continues on alone but is soon confronted and killed by three drifters . The drifters , thinking the gold dust is just worthless sand , scatter the paydirt . They are later captured and executed by the Federales . Curtin and Howard hear the story and can do nothing but laugh in the end . 
 The protagonist , who is unnamed , travels to Berlin to arrange the defection of a Soviet scientist named Semitsa , this being brokered by Johnny Vulkan of the Berlin intelligence community . Despite his initial scepticism the deal seems to have the support of Russian security chief Colonel Stok and Hallam in the British government s Home Office . The fake documentation for Semitsa needs to be precisely specified . In addition , an Israeli intelligence agent named Samantha Steel is involved in the case . But it soon becomes apparent that behind the facade of an elaborate mock funeral lies a game of deadly manoeuvres and ruthless tactics . A game in which the blood stained legacy of Nazi Germany is enmeshed in the intricate moves of cold war espionage . 
 The unnamed protagonist travels to Helsinki to deliver a package after receiving instructions from a mysterious mechanically operated telephone message . On his arrival the protagonist discovers that the message was from The Brain , a one billion dollar super computer owned by eccentric Texan billionaire General Midwinter . Midwinter is using The Brain to organise his own intelligence agency and private army which will soon start an uprising in Soviet occupied Latvia in an attempt to end Communism in the Eastern bloc and tip the balance of the Cold War in favour of the West . After discovering this , and also the fact that the package he delivered contained a deadly virus , the protagonist must stop the virus from falling into the hands of both the Soviets and the madman billionaire and prevent a nuclear war between the superpowers in the process . 
 Set during Christmas 1183 at Henry II of England s castle in Chinon , Anjou , Angevin Empire , the play opens with the arrival of Henry s wife Eleanor of Aquitaine , whom he has had imprisoned since 1173 . The story concerns the gamesmanship between Henry , Eleanor , their three surviving sons Richard , Geoffrey , and John , and their Christmas Court guest , the King of France , Philip II Augustus , who was the son of Eleanor s ex husband , Louis VII of France by his third wife , Adelaide . Also involved is Philip s half sister Alais , who has been at court since she was betrothed to Richard at age eight , but has since become Henry s mistress . The Lion in Winter is fictional and none of the dialogue and actions is historical there was not a Christmas Court at Chinon in 1183 . However , the events leading up to the story are generally accurate . There is no definitive evidence that Alais was Henry s mistress although Richard later resisted marrying Alais on the basis of this claim . The real Henry had many mistresses and several illegitimate children . 
 Lady Isabel Carlyle , a beautiful and refined young woman , leaves her hard working but neglectful lawyer husband and her infant children to elope with an aristocratic suitor . After he deserts her , and she bears their illegitimate child , Lady Isabel disguises herself and takes the position of governess in the household of her former husband and his new wife . 
 The novel is divided into five books . In the first book , Rinaldi introduces Henry to Catherine Barkley Henry attempts to seduce her , and their relationship begins . While on the Italian front , Henry is wounded in the knee by a mortar shell and sent to a hospital in Milan . The second book shows the growth of Henry and Catherine s relationship as they spend time together in Milan over the summer . Henry falls in love with Catherine and , by the time he is healed , Catherine is three months pregnant . In the third book , Henry returns to his unit , but not long afterwards the Austrians break through the Italian lines in the Battle of Caporetto , and the Italians retreat . Henry kills an engineering sergeant for insubordination . After falling behind and catching up again , Henry is taken to a place by the battle police , where officers are being interrogated and executed for the treachery that supposedly led to the Italian defeat . However , after seeing and hearing that everyone interrogated is killed , Henry escapes by jumping into a river . In the fourth book , Catherine and Henry reunite and flee to Switzerland in a rowboat . In the final book , Henry and Catherine live a quiet life in the mountains until she goes into labor . After a long and painful birth , their son is stillborn . Catherine begins to hemorrhage and soon dies , leaving Henry to return to their hotel in the rain . 
 The story is a look at early 20th century American race relations . In Hurst s novel , Bea Chipley is a quiet , mousey , Atlantic City teenage girl whose mother passes away , leaving her to keep house for her father Mr . Chipley and Benjamin Pullman , a boarder who peddles ketchup and relish on the boardwalk and sells maple syrup door to door on the side . Within a year , her father and Pullman decide that she should marry Pullman , and shortly thereafter Bea becomes pregnant . Her father suffers an incapacitating stroke , confining him to a wheelchair , and Pullman is killed in a train accident . Bea is left to fend for herself , her father , and her infant daughter Jessie . Bea takes in boarders to defray expenses and assumes Benjamin s trade of door to door maple syrup sales , using his B . Pullman business cards to avoid the ubiquitous sexism of 1910s America . To care for her infant daughter and disabled father , Bea Pullman hires Delilah , a black mammy figure , who brings with her a light skinned infant daughter named Peola . Delilah is a master waffle maker , and Bea capitalizes on Delilah s skills to open first a single B . Pullman waffle restaurant , from which she eventually builds a nation wide and then international chain of highly successful restaurants . Frank Flake , a striking young man intent on entering medical school , becomes Bea s business manager . In the meantime , Jessie and Peola have grown up side by side , and Peola is painfully aware of the tension between her white appearance and black racial identity . She continually attempts to pass as white , and Delilah , equally pained by the tension , continually attempts to develop in her a sense of pride about her blackness . Eventually Peola severs all ties , marries a white man , and moves to Seattle , causing such pain in Delilah that Delilah passes away not too long after . As Delilah is slowly dying , Bea is falling in love with Flake , who is eight years her junior . Jessie , by now in her late teens , comes home for a visit just as Bea is planning on selling the B . Pullman chain to marry Flake . The three are mired in a love triangle in the last dozen or so pages , resulting in a tragic ending . 
 The story is narrated by Overton , godfather to the central character . The novel takes its beginnings in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries in order to trace Ernest s emergence from previous generations of the Pontifex family . John Pontifex was a carpenter his son George rises in the world to become a publisher George s son Theobald , pressed by his father to become a minister , is manipulated into marrying Christina , the daughter of a clergyman the main character Ernest Pontifex is the eldest son of Theobald and Christina . The author depicts an antagonistic relationship between Ernest and his hypocritical and domineering parents . His aunt Alethea is aware of this relationship , but dies before she can fulfill her aim of counteracting the parents malign influence on the boy . However , shortly before her death she secretly passes a small fortune into Overton s keeping , with the agreement that once Ernest is twenty eight , he can receive it . As Ernest develops into a young man , he travels a bumpy theological road , reflecting the divisions and controversies in the Church of England in the Victorian era . Easily influenced by others at university , he starts out as an Evangelical Christian , and soon becomes a clergyman . He then falls for the lures of the High Church and is duped out of much of his own money by a fellow clergyman . He decides that the way to regenerate the Church of England is to live among the poor , but the results are , first , that his faith in the integrity of the Bible is severely damaged by a conversation with one of the poor he was hoping to redeem , and , second , that under the pressures of poverty and theological doubt , he attempts a sexual assault on a woman he had incorrectly believed to be of loose morals . This assault leads to a prison term . His parents disown him . His health deteriorates . As he recovers he learns how to tailor and decides to make this his profession once out of prison . He loses his Christian faith . He marries Ellen , a former housemaid of his parents , and they have two children and set up shop together in the second hand clothing industry . However , in due course he discovers that Ellen is both a bigamist and an alcoholic . Overton at this point intervenes and pays Ellen off . He gives Ernest a job , and takes him on a trip to Continental Europe . In due course Ernest becomes 28 , and receives his aunt Alethea s gift . He returns to the family home until his parents die his father s influence over him wanes as Theobald s own position as a clergyman is reduced in stature , though to the end Theobald finds small ways purposefully to annoy him . He becomes an author of controversial literature . 
 The novel tells the story of a much beloved schoolteacher and his long tenure at Brookfield , a fictional British boys public boarding school a private school in American terminology . Mr . Chipping conquers his inability to connect with his students , as well as his initial shyness , when he marries Katherine , a young woman whom he meets on holiday and who quickly picks up on calling him by his nickname , Chips . Despite his own mediocre academic record , he goes on to have an illustrious career as an inspiring educator at Brookfield . Although the book is unabashedly sentimental , it also depicts the sweeping social changes that Chips experiences throughout his life he begins his tenure at Brookfield in 1870 , as the Franco Prussian War is breaking out and lies on his deathbed shortly after Adolf Hitler s rise to power . He is seen as an individual who is able to connect to anyone on a human level , beyond what he by proxy of his late wife views as petty politics , such as the strikers , the Boers , and a German friend . Clearly discernible is a nostalgia for the Victorian social order that had faded rapidly after Queen Victoria s death in 1901 and whose remnants were destroyed by the First World War . Indeed , a recurring motif is the devastating impact of the war on British society . When World War I breaks out , Chips , who had retired the year before at age 65 , agrees to come out of retirement to fill in for the various masters who have entered military service . Despite his being taken for a doddering fossil , it is Chips who keeps his wits about him during an air raid , averting mass panic and sustaining morale . Countless old boys and masters die on the battlefield , and much of the story involves Chips s response to the horrors unleashed by the war . At one point , he reads aloud a long roster of the school s fallen alumni , and , defying the modern world he sees as soulless and lacking transcendent values of honour and friendship , dares to include the name of a German former master who has died fighting on the opposite side . 
 Helena , the orphan daughter of a famous physician , is the ward of the Countess of Rousillon , and hopelessly in love with the son of the Countess , Count Bertram , who has been sent to the court of the King of France . Despite her beauty and worth , Helena has no hope of attracting Bertram , since she is of low birth and he is a nobleman . However , when word comes that the King is ill , she goes to Paris and , using her father s arts , cures the fistula from which he suffers . In return , she is given the hand of any man in the realm she chooses Bertram . Her new husband is appalled at the match , however , and shortly after their marriage flees France , accompanied only by a scoundrel named Parolles , to fight in the army of the Duke of Florence . Helena is sent home to the Countess , and receives a letter from Bertram informing her that he will never be her true spouse unless she can get his family ring from his finger , and become pregnant with his child neither of which , he declares , will ever come to pass . The wise Countess , who loves Helena and approves of the match , tries to comfort her , but the distraught young woman departs Rousillon , planning to make a religious pilgrimage . Meanwhile , in Florence , Bertram has become a general in the Duke s army . Helena comes to the city , and discovers that her husband is trying to seduce Diana , the virginal daughter of a kindly widow . Diana wishes to stay a virgin , and so Helena helps her trick Bertram . He gives Diana his ring as a token of his love , and in turn , Diana gives him a ring that belonged to Helena . When Bertram comes to Diana s room at night , Helena is in the bed , and they make love without his realising that it is Helena . At the same time , two lords in the army expose Parolles as a coward and a villain , and he falls out of Bertram s favour . Meanwhile , false messengers have come to the camp bearing word that Helena is dead , and with the war drawing to a close , Bertram decides to return to France . Unknown to him , Helena follows , accompanied by Diana and the Widow . In Rousillon , everyone is mourning Helena as dead . The King is visiting , and consents to a marriage between Bertram and the daughter of an old , faithful lord , named Lafew . However , he notices the ring on Bertram s finger that formerly belonged to Helena it was a gift from the King after she saved his life . Bertram is at a loss to explain where it came from , but just then Diana and her mother appear to explain the trickery followed by Helena , who informs her husband that both his conditions have been fulfilled . Bertram accepts Helena as his true wife , but in many modern interpretations the bitterness remains . 
 The first section of On Writing is an Autobiography mainly about King s early exposure to writing , and his childhood attempts at writing . King talks about his early attempts to get published , and his first novel Carrie . King also talks about his fame as a writer , and what it took to get there . This includes his relationship with his wife , the death of his mother and his history of drug and alcohol abuse . The second section is practical advice on writing , including tips on grammar and ideas about developing plot and character . King himself describes it as a guide for how a competent writer can become a good one . This includes his beliefs that a writer should edit out unnecessary details and avoid the use of unnecessary adverbs . He also uses quotes from other books and authors to illustrate his points . The third section is also autobiographical , in which King discusses the 1999 automobile accident in which he was struck by a vehicle while walking down an isolated country road . He describes serious injuries , his painful recovery and his struggle to start writing again . King includes part of a rough draft and an edited draft of his own story entitled 1408 . In the United Kingdom paperback version , a short story by Garret Adams entitled Jumper was included at the end of the book , which was the winner of the On Writing competition . 
 The Eyes of the Dragon takes place entirely within the realm of Delain which itself is located within In World from The Dark Tower series . It is told from the perspective of an unnamed storyteller narrator , who speaks casually and frankly to the reader , frequently adding his own commentary on characters motivations and the like . The King s magician , Flagg , seeking to destroy the Kingdom of Delain , sees his plans being ruined by the good heart of Queen Sasha . After Sasha gives birth to Peter , a noble and worthy future king , Flagg realizes that his position , his plans , and his life may be in danger because of Peter . When Sasha is pregnant with a second son , Flagg seizes the opportunity . He forces the Queen s midwife to cut Sasha as the second son , Thomas , is born . Sasha bleeds to death and Flagg begins plotting to remove Peter . As Peter becomes a teenager , he begins the custom of bringing a glass of wine to his father before bed each night . Flagg decides to use this as a means of framing Peter . He dissolves a poison called Dragon Sand in a glass of wine and delivers it to the king after Peter leaves . Previously , in an attempt to win Thomas friendship , Flagg had shown him a secret passage where Thomas could spy on his father . Unbeknownst to Flagg , when he delivers the poison , Thomas is watching through the glass eyes of the mounted head of Roland s greatest trophy , the dragon . Flagg plants evidence incriminating Peter . After a brief trial , during which the judge decides Peter is guilty , he is locked up in the enormous tower called the Needle in the center of the city . Thomas is then crowned King , although he is only twelve years old due to his youth and his fearful inexperience , he allows Flagg enormous amounts of power . At the start of his long stay in the Needle , Peter manages to send a note to the judge who convicted him , Anders Peyna , with the seemingly innocuous requests to have his mother s old dollhouse and napkins with his meals . Peyna is puzzled by the requests , but , seeing no harm in them , grants them . Five years later , Peter escapes from the Needle , having used the toy loom in the dollhouse and threads from the napkins to make a rope . After the escape he and his allies rush to get Roland s bow and arrow . However , it is not to be found because Thomas had it once they got into the king s sitting room . Flagg , now revealed as a demonic being , is about to kill them when Thomas reveals himself and tells Flagg that he Thomas watched Flagg poison Roland . Thomas shoots Flagg in the eye , but Flagg uses magic to disappear and escape . At the end of the novel , Peter is declared to be the rightful king . Thomas , who has become deeply hated in Delain , sets off alongside his butler , Dennis , to find Flagg . They find him and they confront him , but the narrator does not reveal the outcome . 
 Alan Parker is a student at the University of Maine who is trying to find himself . He gets a call from a neighbor in his hometown , Lewiston , telling him that his mother has been taken to the hospital after having a stroke . Lacking a functioning car , Parker decides to hitchhike the 120 miles south to visit his mother . His first ride is with an old man who continually tugs at his crotch in a car that stinks of urine . Happy to escape this ride , Alan starts walking , thumbing his next ride . Coming upon a graveyard , Alan notices a headstone for a stranger named George Staub Staub is German and means dust Well Begun , Too Soon Done . Sure enough , the next car to pick him up is George Staub , complete with black stitches around his neck where his head had been sewn on after being severed and wearing a button saying I rode The Bullet at Thrill Village , Laconia . During the ride , George talks to Alan about the amusement park ride he was too scared to ride as a kid The Bullet in Thrill Village , Laconia , New Hampshire . George tells Alan that before they reach the lights of town , Alan must choose who goes on the death ride with George Alan or his mother . In a moment of fright , Alan saves himself and tells him to Take her . Take my Mother . George shoves Alan out of the car , where he reappears alone at the graveyard , wearing the I Rode the Bullet at Thrill Village button . Alan eventually reaches the hospital , despite his guilt and the impending feeling that his mother is dead or will die any moment , his mother is fine . Alan takes the button and treasures it as a good or bad luck charm , his mother returns to work and to smoking , he graduates and takes care of his mother for several years and another stroke . One day he loses the button and knows what the phone call was about . . . . He finds the button underneath his mother s bed , and after a final moment of sadness , guilt , and meditation , decides to carry on . 
 As the story begins , Dolores Claiborne is in a police interrogation and wants to make clear to the police that she did not kill her wealthy employer , an elderly woman named Vera Donovan whom she has looked after for years . She does , however , confess to the murder of her husband , Joe St . George , almost 30 years before , after finding out that he sexually molested their fourteen year old daughter , Selena . Dolores s confession develops into the story of her life , her troubled marriage , and her relationship with her employer . Unlike many other works by King , there is little focus on the supernatural the only such event in the book are two telepathic visions , which form a link to King s novel Gerald s Game although reviewer Sean Piccoli observed the novel otherwise contained vintage bone yard King the tiny town , the secret lives . Murder and mayhem lurk reliably behind the tranquil veneer . 
 Solaris chronicles the ultimate futility of attempted communications with the extraterrestrial life on a far distant planet . Solaris , with whom Terran scientists are attempting communication , is almost completely covered with an ocean that is revealed to be a single , planet encompassing organism . What appear to be waves on its surface are later revealed to be the equivalents of muscle contractions . Kris Kelvin arrives aboard the scientific research station hovering via anti gravity generators near the oceanic surface of the planet Solaris . The scientists there have studied the planet and its ocean for many decades , a scientific discipline known as Solaristics , which over the years has degenerated to simply observe , record and categorize the complex phenomena that occur upon the surface of the ocean . Thus far , they have only achieved the formal classification of the phenomena with an elaborate nomenclature yet do not understand what such activities really mean in a strictly scientific sense . Shortly before psychologist Kelvin s arrival , the crew has exposed the ocean to a more aggressive and unauthorized experimentation with a high energy X ray bombardment . Their experimentation gives unexpected results and becomes psychologically traumatic for them as individually flawed humans . The ocean s response to their aggression exposes the deeper , hidden aspects of the personalities of the human scientists whilst revealing nothing of the ocean s nature itself . To the extent that the ocean s actions can be understood , the ocean then seems to test the minds of the scientists by confronting them with their most painful and repressed thoughts and memories . It does this via the materialization of physical human simulacra Kelvin confronts memories of his dead lover and guilt about her suicide . The torments of the other researchers are only alluded to but seem even worse than Kelvin s personal purgatory . The ocean s intelligence expresses physical phenomena in ways difficult for their limited earth science to explain , deeply upsetting the scientists . The alien extraterrestrial mind of Solaris is so greatly different from the human mind of objective consciousness that attempts at inter species communications are a dismal failure . 
 At the beginning of the novel , Mr . Lewisham is an 18 year old teacher at a boys school in Sussex , earning forty pounds a year . He meets and falls in love with Ethel Henderson , who is paying a visit to relatives . His involvement with her causes him to lose his position , but he is unable to find her when he moves to London . After a two and one half year break in the action , Mr . Lewisham is in his third year of study at the Normal School of Science in South Kensington . He has becomes a socialist , declaring his politics with a red tie , and is an object of interest to Alice Heydinger , an older student . But chance brings him together again with his first love at a séance . Ethel s stepfather , Mr . Chaffery , is a spiritualist charlatan , and Mr . Lewisham is determined to extricate her from association with his dishonesty . They marry , but Mr . Lewisham is forced to abandon his plans for a brilliant scientific career followed by a political ascent . 
 The Stardroppers is about an undercover United Nations agent investigating a new fad , stardropping , whereby physics violating equipment is used to listen to sounds believed to be alien or paranormal signals . Superficially a harmless but expensive hobby , stardropping reins in a fanaticism resembling addiction , where some users assemble in semi social communes and spend all of their money on increasingly improved equipment . The fad gains an additional aspect of risk when users begin disappearing into thin air , in cases of increasing profile and witnessing . 
 The focus is on Southerner Regina Hubbard Giddens , who struggles for wealth and freedom within the confines of an early 20th century society where a father considered only sons as legal heirs . As a result , her avaricious brothers Benjamin and Oscar are independently wealthy , while she must rely upon her sickly , wheelchair using husband Horace for financial support . Regina s brother Oscar has married Birdie , his much maligned , alcoholic wife , solely to acquire her family s plantation and its cotton fields . Oscar now wants to join forces with his brother , Benjamin , to construct a cotton mill . They approach their sister with their need for an additional 75 , 000 to invest in the project . Oscar initially proposes marriage between his son Leo and Regina s daughter Alexandra first cousins as a means of getting Horace s money , but Horace and Alexandra are repulsed by the suggestion . When Regina asks Horace outright for the money , he refuses , so Leo , a bank teller , is pressured into stealing his uncle Horace s railroad bonds from the bank s safety deposit box . Horace , after discovering this , tells Regina he is going to change his will in favor of their daughter , and also will claim he gave Leo the bonds as a loan , thereby cutting Regina out of the deal completely . When he suffers a heart attack during this chat , she makes no effort to help him . He dies within hours , without anyone knowing his plan and before changing his will . This leaves Regina free to blackmail her brothers by threatening to report Leo s theft unless they give her 75 ownership in the cotton mill it is in Regina s mind , a fair exchange for the stolen bonds . The price Regina ultimately pays for her evil deeds is the loss of her daughter Alexandra s love and respect . Regina s actions cause Alexandra to finally understand the importance of not idly watching people do evil . She tells Regina she will not watch her be one who eats the earth , and abandons her . Having let her husband die , alienated her brothers , and driven away her only child , Regina is left wealthy but completely alone . 
 The play opens with the King of Navarre and three noble companions , Berowne , Dumaine , and Longaville , taking an oath to devote themselves to three years of study , promising not to give in to the company of women Berowne somewhat more hesitantly than the others . Berowne reminds the king that the princess and her three ladies are coming to the kingdom and it would be suicidal for the King to agree to this law . The King denies what Berowne says , insisting that the ladies make their camp in the field outside of his court . The King and his men meet the princess and her ladies . Instantly , they all fall comically in love . The main story is assisted by many other humorous sub plots . A rather heavily accented Spanish swordsman , Don Adriano de Armado , tries and fails to woo a country wench , Jaquenetta , helped by Moth , his page , and rivalled by Costard , a country idiot . We are also introduced to two scholars , Holofernes and Sir Nathaniel , and we see them converse with each other in schoolboy Latin . In the final act , the comic characters perform a play to entertain the nobles , an idea conceived by Holofernes , where they represent the Nine Worthies . The four Lords as well as the Ladies courtier Boyet mock the play , and Armado and Costard almost come to blows . At the end of this play within the play , there is a bitter twist in the story . News arrives that the Princess s father has died and she must leave to take the throne . The king and his nobles swear to remain faithful to their ladies , but the ladies , unconvinced that their love is that strong , claim that the men must wait a whole year and a day to prove what they say is true . This is an unusual ending for Shakespeare and Elizabethan comedy . A play mentioned by Francis Meres , Love s Labour s Won , is believed by some to be a sequel to this play . 
 In the Sandleford warren , Fiver , a young runt rabbit who is a seer , receives a frightening vision of his warren s imminent destruction . When he and his brother Hazel fail to convince their chief rabbit of the need to evacuate , they set out on their own with a small band of rabbits to search for a new home , barely eluding the Owsla , the warren s military caste . The travelling group of rabbits find themselves following the leadership of Hazel , previously an unimportant member of the warren . They travel through dangerous territory , with Bigwig and Silver , both former Owsla , as the strongest rabbits among them . Fiver s visions promise a safe place in which to settle , and the group eventually finds Watership Down , an ideal location to set up their new warren . They are soon reunited with Holly and Bluebell , also from the Sandleford Warren , who reveal that Fiver s vision was true and the entire warren was destroyed by humans . Although Watership Down is a peaceful habitat , Hazel realises there are no does female rabbits , thus making the future of their new home uncertain . With the help of a seagull named Kehaar , they locate a nearby warren , Efrafa , which is overcrowded and has many does . Hazel sends a small emissary to Efrafa to present their request for does . While waiting for the group to return , Hazel and Pipkin successfully raid the nearby Nuthanger Farm to rescue a group of hutch rabbits there , returning with two does and a buck . When the emissary returns , Hazel and his rabbits learn Efrafa is a police state led by the despotic General Woundwort Hazel s rabbits barely return alive . However , the group does manage to identify an Efrafan doe named Hyzenthlay who wants to leave the warren and can recruit other does to join . Hazel and Bigwig devise a plan to rescue the group of rabbits from Efrafa to join them on Watership Down . The Efrafan escapees start their new life on Watership Down , but soon Woundwort s army arrives to attack the Watership Down warren . Through Bigwig s bravery and loyalty and Hazel s ingenuity , the Watership Down rabbits defeat Woundwort . The story s epilogue tells the reader of how Hazel , dozing in his burrow one chilly , blustery morning in March many years later , is visited by the rabbit folk hero El ahrairah , who invites Hazel to join his Owsla . Leaving his friends and no longer needed body behind , Hazel departs Watership Down with El ahrairah , running easily down through the wood , where the first primroses were beginning to bloom . 
 Richard II is the main character of the play . The first Act begins with King Richard sitting majestically on his throne in full state . We learn that Henry Bolingbroke , Richard s cousin , is having a dispute with Thomas Mowbray , and they both want the king to act as judge . The subject of the quarrel is Bolingbroke s accusation that Mowbray had squandered monies given to him by Richard for the King s soldiers . Bolingbroke also accuses Mowbray of the recent murder of the Duke of Gloucester , although John of Gaunt Gloucester s brother and Bolingbroke s father believes that Richard himself was responsible for the murder . After several attempts to calm both men , Richard acquiesces and Bolingbroke and Mowbray challenge each other to a duel , over the objections of both Richard and Gaunt . The tournament scene is very formal with a long , ceremonial introduction . But Richard interrupts the duel at the very beginning and sentences both men to banishment from England . Bolingbroke has to leave for six years , whereas Mowbray is banished forever . The king s decision can be seen as the first mistake in a series that will lead eventually to his overthrow and death . Indeed , Mowbray predicts that the king will fall sooner or later . John of Gaunt dies and Richard II seizes all of his land and money . This angers the nobility , who accuse Richard of wasting England s money , of taking Gaunt s money which rightfully belongs to Bolingbroke to fund a war with Ireland , of taxing the commoners , and of fining the nobles for crimes their ancestors committed . Next , they help Bolingbroke secretly to return to England and plan to overthrow Richard II . However , there remain some subjects faithful to Richard , among them Bushy , Bagot , Green and the Duke of Aumerle son of the Duke of York , cousin of both Richard and Bolingbroke . King Richard leaves England to administer the war in Ireland , and Bolingbroke takes the opportunity to assemble an army and invade the north coast of England . He executes Bushy and Green , and wins over the Duke of York , whom Richard has left in charge of his government during his absence . When Richard returns , Bolingbroke first claims his land back but then additionally claims the throne . He crowns himself King Henry IV and Richard is taken into prison to the castle of Pomfret . Aumerle and others plan a rebellion against the new king , but York discovers his son s treachery and reveals it to Henry , who spares Aumerle as a result of the intercession of the Duchess of York but executes the other conspirators . After interpreting King Henry s living fear as a reference to the still living Richard , an ambitious nobleman Exton goes to the prison and murders the former king . King Henry repudiates the murderer and vows to journey to Jerusalem to cleanse himself of his part in Richard s death . 
 Road of Skulls A Gift from the Culture Odd Attachment Descendant Cleaning Up Piece The State of the Art At 100 pages long , the title novella makes up the bulk of the book . The novella chronicles a Culture mission to Earth in the late Seventies , and also serves as a prequel of sorts to Use of Weapons by featuring one of that novel s characters , Diziet Sma . Here , Sma argues for contact with Earth , to try to fix the mess the human species has made of it another Culture citizen , Linter , goes native , choosing to renounce his Culture body enhancements so as to be more like the locals and Li , who is a Star Trek fan , argues that the whole incontestably neurotic and clinically insane species should be eradicated with a micro black hole . The ship Arbitrary has ideas , and a sense of humour , of its own . Also while I d been away , the ship had sent a request on a postcard to the BBC s World Service , asking for Mr David Bowie s Space Oddity for the good ship Arbitrary and all who sail in her . This from a machine that could have swamped Earth s entire electro magnetic spectrum with whatever the hell it wanted from somewhere beyond Betelgeuse . It didn t get the request played . The ship thought this was hilarious . Scratch or The Present and Future of Species HS sic Considered as The Contents of a Contemporary Popular Record qv 
 Jernau Morat Gurgeh , a famously skilful player of board games and other similar contests , lives on Chiark Orbital , and is bored with his successful life . The Culture s Special Circumstances inquires about his willingness to participate in a long journey , though won t explain further unless Gurgeh agrees to participate . While he is considering this offer , one of his drone friends , Mawhrin Skel , which had been ejected from Special Circumstances due to its unstable personality , convinces him to cheat in one of his matches in an attempt to win in an unprecedented perfect fashion . The attempt fails , but Mawhrin Skel uses his recording of the event to blackmail Gurgeh into accepting the offer and insisting that Mawhrin Skel be admitted back into Special Circumstances as well . Gurgeh spends the next two years travelling to the Empire of Azad in the Small Magellanic Cloud , where a complex game also named Azad is used to determine social rank and political status . The game itself is sufficiently subtle and complex that a player s tactics reflect his own political and philosophical outlook . By the time he arrives , he has grasped the game but is unsure how he will measure up against opponents who have been studying it for their entire lives . Gurgeh lands on the Empire s home planet of Eä , accompanied by another drone , Flere Imsaho . As a Culture citizen , he naturally plays with a style markedly different from his opponents , many of whom stack the odds against him one way or another , such as forming backroom agreements to cooperate against him which is allowed by the game s rules . As he advances through the tournament he is matched against increasingly powerful Azad politicians , and ultimately the Emperor himself in the final round . Faced with defeat , the Emperor attempts to kill Gurgeh , but is himself killed by a shot from his own weapon , deflected by Flere Imsaho who later refuses to tell Gurgeh if it was coincidental . Flere Imsaho reveals that Gurgeh s participation was part of a Culture plot to overthrow the corrupt and savage Empire from within , and that he , the player , was in fact a pawn in a much larger game . Although Gurgeh never discovers the whole truth , it is ultimately revealed to the reader that Flere Imsaho was the same drone as Mawhrin Skel , who was also the narrator of the novel itself . 
 Despite the passage of time , Major Quilan still suffers grief and bereavement from the death of his wife , killed during the Chelgrian civil war that resulted from the Culture s interference . Quilan is offered the chance to avenge the lost Chelgrians who died in a civil war and is inducted into a plot to strike back at the Culture . As part of the plot , his soulkeeper a device normally used to store its owner s personality upon their death is equipped with both the mind of a long dead Chelgrian general and a device that can transport wormholes connected to weapons caches . Quilan is then sent to Masaq Orbital , ostensibly to persuade Mahrai Ziller to return to his native Chel but is in reality on a suicide mission to destroy the Orbital s Hub Mind . To protect him from detection at Masaq , Quilan s memory is selectively blanked until he reaches his target . On Masaq , Ziller lives in self imposed exile , having renounced his privileged position in Chel s caste system . An accomplished composer , he has been commissioned to compose music to mark the anniversary of the Idiran Culture War . Upon hearing of Quilan s visit , and his reason for travel , Ziller scrupulously avoids him , reluctant to engage with a civilization that repels him . Quilan succeeds in placing the wormholes in the Mind s Hub , but the Mind detects them immediately and , although not able to track the location of the other end of the wormholes , suggests that the Involved aliens assisting Quilan s mission may have been a group of Culture minds seeking to keep the Culture from being too complacent . Having struggled with its memories from the Idiran Culture war , when it was the General Systems Vehicle Lasting Damage , the Mind reveals to Quilan that it seeks to cease existing and offers to take Quilan with it . They both die . In the end of the novel , a nightmarishly efficient E Dust Assassin is unleashed against the Chelgrian priest who was responsible , as well as his immediate co conspirators . It is not revealed whether this was a form of retribution by the Culture or a cover up by a secret Culture faction . 
 The book is made up of two narrative streams , interwoven in alternating chapters . The numbers of the chapters indicate which stream they belong to one stream is numbered forward in words One , Two . . . , while the other is numbered in reverse with Roman numerals XIII , XII . . . . The story told by the former moves forward chronologically as the numbers suggest and tells a self contained story , while in the latter is written in reverse chronology with each chapter successively earlier in Zakalwe s life . Further complicating this structure is a prologue and epilogue set shortly after the events of the main narrative , and many flashbacks within the chapters . The forward moving stream of the novel deals with the attempts of Diziet Sma and a drone named Skaffen Amtiskaw to re enlist Zakalwe for another job , the task itself and the payment that Zakalwe wishes for it . The backward moving stream describes earlier jobs that Zakalwe has performed for the Culture , ultimately returning to his pre Culture career as a general on his homeworld . It transpires that the payment he requires from Sma relates to an incident from his earlier life . 
 Choke follows Victor Mancini and his friend Denny through a few months of their lives with frequent flashbacks to the days when Victor was a child . He had grown up moving from one foster home to another , as his mother was found to be unfit to raise him . Several times throughout his childhood , his mother would kidnap him from his various foster parents , though every time they would eventually be caught , and he would again be remanded over to the governmental child welfare agency . In the present day setting of the book , Victor is now a man in his mid twenties who left medical school in order to find work to support his feeble mother who is now in a nursing home . He cannot afford the care that his mother is receiving so he resorts to being a con man . He consistently goes to various restaurants and purposely causes himself to choke mid way through his meal , luring a good Samaritan into saving his life . He keeps a detailed list of everyone who saves him and sends them frequent letters about fictional bills he is unable to pay . The people feel so sorry for him that they send him cards and letters asking him about how he s doing and even continue to send him money to help him with the bills . He works at a re enactment museum set in colonial times , where most of the employees are drug addicts or , in his friend Denny s case , a fellow recovering sex addict . Most of the time Palahniuk spends describing Victor s job , Victor is guarding his friend Denny who is constantly being caught with contraband , items that don t correspond with the time period of the museum in the stocks . Victor first met Denny at a sexual addiction support group he was there as a guy who masturbates too much , and they later applied together to the same job . Denny is later fired from the museum , and begins collecting stones from around the city to build his dream home Palahniuk based this portion of the novel on the true story of Ferdinand Cheval . While growing up , Victor s mother taught him numerous conspiracy theories and obscure medical facts which both confused and frightened him . This and his constant moves from one home to another have left Victor unable to form lasting and stable relationships with women . Victor , as a result , finds himself getting sexual gratification from women on a solely superficial level using sex anonymous meetings to find many of his sexual partners . Later on , he starts talking to his mother again for the first time in years . The narrative is episodic , and is presented out of chronological order , a style common to the author s books . 
 The story is told by Nathan Zuckerman , a writer who lives quietly in New England , where Coleman Silk is his neighbor . Silk is a former classics professor and dean of faculty at nearby Athena College , a fictional institution in the Berkshires of western Massachusetts . At 71 , Silk is accused of racism by two black students because of referring to them as spooks . As they have never shown up in his seminar , he asks Do they exist or are they spooks ? Having never seen the students , Silk does not know they are black when he makes the comment . The uproar leads to Silk s resignation . Soon after , his wife Iris dies of a stroke , which Silk feels is caused by the stress of his being forced out of the college . Silk begins an affair with Faunia Farley , a 34 year old local woman who works as a janitor at the college and is married to an abusive Vietnam veteran . Silk is criticized by feminist scholars at the college for this . Zuckerman gradually learns that Silk is an African American who has presented himself as Jewish and white since a stint in the Navy . He completed graduate school , married a white woman and had four children with her . He never told his wife and children of his mixed ancestry . As Roth wrote in the novel , Silk chose to take the future into his own hands rather than to leave it to an unenlightened society to determine his fate . 
 The village of Wootton Major was well known around the countryside for its annual festivals , which were particularly famous for their culinary delights . The biggest festival of all was the Feast of Good Children . This festival was celebrated only once every twenty four years twenty four children of the village were invited to a party , and the highlight of the party was the Great Cake , a career milestone by which Master Cooks were judged . In the year the story begins , the Master Cook was Nokes , who had landed the position more or less by default he delegated much of the creative work to his apprentice Alf . Nokes crowned his Great Cake with a little doll jokingly representing the Queen of Faery . Various trinkets were hidden in the cake for the children to find one of these was a star the Cook discovered in the old spice box . The star was not found at the Feast , but was swallowed by a blacksmith s son . The boy did not feel its magical properties at once , but on the morning of his tenth birthday the star fixed itself on his forehead , and became his passport to Faery . The boy grew up to be a blacksmith like his father , but in his free time he roamed the Land of Faery . The star on his forehead protected him from many of the dangers threatening mortals in that land , and the Folk of Faery called him Starbrow . The book describes his many travels in Faery , until at last he meets the true Queen of Faery . The identity of the King is also revealed . The time came for another Feast of Good Children . Smith had possessed his gift for most of his life , and the time had come to pass it on to some other child . So he regretfully surrendered the star to Alf , and with it his adventures into Faery . Alf , who had become Master Cook long before , baked it into the festive cake once again for another child to find . After the feast , Alf retired and left the village and Smith returned to his forge to teach his craft to his now grown son . 
 England , England is divided into three parts entitled England , England , England and Anglia . The first part focuses on the protagonist Martha Cochrane and her childhood memories . Growing up in the surrounding of the English countryside , her peaceful childhood gets disrupted when her father leaves the family . Martha s memories of her father are closely related to playing a Counties of England jigsaw puzzle with him . The second part , England , England , is set in the near future in what is clearly marked as a postmodern age . Martha is now in her forties and gets employed by the entrepreneur Sir Jack Pitman for his megalomaniac project . Sir Jack aims to turn the Isle of Wight into a gigantic theme park which contains everything that people , especially tourists , consider to be quintessentially English , selected according to what Sir Jack himself approves of . The theme park called England , England thus becomes a replica of England s best known historical buildings , figures and sites . Popular English tourist attractions and icons of Englishness are crammed together to be easily accessible without having to travel whole real England . While working on the set up of the project , Martha starts an affair with one of her colleagues , Paul Harrison . They find out about Sir Jack s questionable sexual preferences and blackmail him with the discriminating evidence when Sir Jack wants to dismiss Martha . She thus becomes CEO of the Island project , which turns out to be a highly popular tourist attraction . As a consequence of the huge success , England , England becomes an independent state and part of the European Union , while the real , Old England suffers a severe decline and increasingly falls into oblivion . After a major scandal in the theme park , however , Martha is eventually expelled from the island . The third part of the novel , Anglia , is set decades later and depicts Martha who has returned to a village in Old England after many years of wandering abroad . The original nation has regressed into a vastly de populated , agrarian and pre industrial state without any international political influence , while England , England continues to prosper . The chapter describes the villagers endeavour to re establish a traditional village fête with the help of Martha s memories . Martha ultimately spends her final days in this rural setting pondering about her past . 
 The book is set on a far future Earth where the uploading of mindstates into a world spanning computer network known as the data corpus , cryptosphere or simply crypt is commonplace , allowing the dead to be easily reincarnated though by custom , only a limited number of reincarnations are allowed . Humanity has lost much of its technological background , due partly to an exodus by much of the species , and partly to the fact that those who remained or at least their rulers are fighting against more advanced technology such as Artificial Intelligence . Meanwhile , the solar system is drifting into an interstellar molecular cloud the Encroachment , which will eventually dim the Sun s light sufficiently to end life on Earth . The Diaspora the long departed segment of humanity have left behind a device the Fearsome Engine of the title to deal with the problem the book follows four characters who become involved in the attempt to activate it , with the narrative moving between the four who do not meet until very near the end in rotation . A quarter of the book is told by Bascule the Teller and is written phonetically in the first person . This is explained by Bascule s dyslexia . The fourth chapter of the book s Part One opens with 
 Seven of the original eight Lazy Guns were destroyed before the events of Against a Dark Background . One disappeared with its user when he tried to fire it at the local sun , one suffered a lucky strike during an air raid , two self destructed when investigators tried to take them apart and another was destroyed by an assassin . A sixth was destroyed when investigators fired it with its lenses looking through an electron microscope . The seventh , found before the events of the book by the Lady Sharrow and her team , was destroyed by the university it was sold to when they tampered with it . The resulting explosion devastated the city the university was located in . The hunt for the eighth and final Lazy Gun is the main plot theme of Against a Dark Background . Much of the novel concerns Sharrow s adventures in searching for and acquiring it . Her motivation is that the Huhsz religious cult regard it as a sacred object , and that if she can find it and give it to them , their vendetta against her will lapse . Sharrow encounters various political systems on her travels across Golter . She also meets the Solipsists , a gang of pirate mercenaries on a hovercraft , who hold very unusual philosophical beliefs . When the last Lazy Gun is eventually discovered , it is guarded by an elaborate defense system incorporating a genetic key which Sharrow has to deactivate . 
 The story is a series of episodes in the youth of George Sherston , ranging from his first attempts to learn to ride to his experiences in winning point to point races . The title is somewhat misleading , as the book is mainly concerned with a series of landmark events in Sherson Sassoon s childhood and youth , and his encounters with various comic characters . The Flower Show Match , an account of an annual village cricket match an important fixture for those involved in which young Sherston plays a significant part , was later published separately by Faber as a self contained story . The book as a whole is a frequently humorous work , in which fox hunting , one of Sassoon s major interests , comes to represent the young man s innocent frame of mind in the years before war broke out . The book ends with his enlistment in a local regiment . The story is continued in two sequels Memoirs of an Infantry Officer and Sherston s Progress . 
 The narrator of the story is a British journalist in India Kipling himself , in all but name . While on a tour of some Indian native states he meets two scruffy adventurers , Daniel Dravot and Peachey Carnehan . He rather likes them , but then stops them from blackmailing a minor rajah . A few months later they appear at his office in Lahore . They tell him their plan . They have been Soldier , sailor , compositor typesetter , photographer . . . railroad engine drivers , petty contractors , and more , and have decided India is not big enough for them . The next day they will go off to Kafiristan to set themselves up as kings . Dravot can pass as a native , and they have twenty Martini Henry rifles then perhaps the best in the world . They plan to find a king or chief , help him defeat his enemies then take over for themselves . They ask the narrator for the use of any books or maps of the area as a favor , because they are fellow Freemasons , and because he spoiled their blackmail scheme . Two years later , on a scorching hot summer night , Carnehan creeps into the narrator s office . He is a broken man , a crippled beggar clad in rags and he tells an amazing story . Dravot and Carnehan succeeded in becoming kings finding the Kafirs , who turn out to be white so hairy and white and fair it was just shaking hands with old friends , mustering an army , taking over villages , and dreaming of building a unified nation . The Kafirs , who were pagans , not Muslims , acclaimed Dravot as a god the son of Alexander the Great . The Kafirs practiced a form of Masonic ritual and the adventurers knew Masonic secrets that only the oldest priest remembered . Their schemes were dashed when Dravot decided to marry a Kafir girl . Terrified at marrying a god , the girl bit Dravot when he tried to kiss her . Seeing him bleed , the priests cried that he was Neither God nor Devil but a man ! Most of the Kafirs turned against Dravot and Carnehan . One chief whom they have nicknamed Billy Fish and a few of his men remained loyal , but the army defected and the two kings were captured . Dravot , wearing his crown , stood on a rope bridge over a gorge while the Kafirs cut the ropes and fell to his death . Carnehan was crucified between two pine trees . When he survived for a day , the Kafirs considered it a miracle and let him go . He begged his way back to India . As proof of his tale , Carnehan shows the narrator Dravot s head , still wearing the golden crown . Carnehan leaves . The next day the narrator sees him crawling along the road in the noon sun , with his hat off and gone mad . The narrator sends him to the local asylum . When he inquires two days later , he learns that Carnehan has died of sunstroke half an hour bare headed in the sun at mid day . . . . No belongings were found with him . 
 The novel chronicles the life of Amelia , the only daughter of newspaper tycoon Max de Monde who , after having spoiled Amelia beyond hope while she was still young , abandons her when she becomes pregnant . Amelia decides to marry Mark Crawley , the father of her child , an ambitious young critic intent on shaking off his humble background . Suddenly , the young couple find themselves in desperate need of money and , at first , accommodations . While she stays at home raising their daughter Rose , Amelia metamorphoses from spoiled brat to mature and responsible mother , whereas her husband loses all interest in the housewife he now realizes he has married . Amelia is encouraged to stay on her chosen path by Grace , her cleaning woman who is also her niece without either of the women being aware of this , and by Tom Viner , a young doctor who becomes their lodger . A Vicious Circle also follows the life of Mary Quinn . An Irish girl lacking a university education , Mary has a natural writing talent and rises to become a prominent reviewer of new fiction after having been left by her lover of many years , Mark Crawley . Mary makes friends with Adam Sands , a yet unpublished author who keeps his homosexuality a secret from almost everyone including his own mother . When he is dying of an AIDS related disease , Mary is the only person who remembers and eventually takes care of him . When the recession of the 1990s hits the country everyone seems to be affected by it . Max de Monde , who has even plundered his daughter s trust fund , spectacularly commits suicide by crashing his helicopter against the ground . Amelia leaves Mark and is planning to raise her daughter as a single parent . 
